[21:59:47] <stockh0lm> the tension!!!
[21:59:51] <stockh0lm> i cant stand it!
[21:59:56] <Snow-Man> Ask in the appropriate channel about your irc client. :)
[21:59:59] * stockh0lm faints
[22:00:09] <fabbione> weasel bitchx ?
[22:00:20] <stockh0lm> BrandenRobinson is Overfiend? i had no idea!!!
[22:00:24] <weasel> no, irssi
[22:00:26] <adaml_> weasel: /window new
[22:00:44] <Manoj> ooh
[22:00:48] <Manoj> hush now
[22:00:55] <Snow-Man> haha
[22:00:59] <Beowulf> sshhhh! :)
[22:01:01] <BrandenRobinson> are candidates not allowed in THIS channel?
[22:01:16] <Manoj> yes, but hush, we are trying to pay attention
[22:01:24] <GyrosGeier> stockh0lm, I hope you didn't say something nasty about Branden to "Overfiend"... :-)
[22:01:42] * m2 has the weird feeling he's desynced...
[22:01:48] <stockh0lm> GyrosGeier: only nasty things.
[22:02:01] <liiwi> hiya m2, ltns
[22:02:11] <stevee> weasel: sure, /window new split
[22:02:28] <weasel> yea, I figured that. now I need to figure out how to bind them - *sigh*, never needed that before
[22:02:34] <m2> liiwi, hey, howdy?
[22:02:38] <part> hey m2
[22:02:43] <BrandenRobinson> yes
[22:02:44] <BrandenRobinson> oops
[22:02:48] <fd0> hehe
[22:02:51] <davidw> gentlemen, start your engines
[22:03:00] <ifvoid> hmm, only 111 people present
[22:03:09] <Keybuk> out of ~1000 that's not great :s
[22:03:14] <weasel> davidw: oh no, I just saw that bad movie with Stallone
[22:03:16] <Snow-Man> Where are the questions from anyway? (No, I havn't been reading the announcements)
[22:03:19] <DanielS> sigh, too late to question bomb, it seems :\
[22:03:19] <weasel> davidw: now you reminded me again
[22:03:20] <asuffield> some of the people are sheep
[22:03:20] <joeyh> not suprising
[22:03:24] <Beowulf> ifvoid: friday is not a very good day. And a lot of people does not IRC
[22:03:24] <DanielS> stupid alarm
[22:03:25] <stockh0lm> i like that system. cool.
[22:03:27] <part> most of that 1000 don't irc or aren't even active
[22:03:32] <Moppet> it's the middle of the workday in the US
[22:03:35] <joeyh> some of the people are working
[22:03:39] <ifvoid> Beowulf: iirc, there were much more people last year
[22:03:44] * vorlon_ isn't working, nosir.
[22:03:46] <Moppet> hopefully more will read the logs
[22:04:03] * Snow-Man isn't at work, really. O:)
[22:04:11] <stevee> weasel: and /ignore #debian-dpl-{debate|discuss} JOINS PARTS QUITS  <-- this should be helpful, too :)
[22:04:17] <part> and it's midnight in the civilized world ;)
[22:04:17] <dbharris> In the meantime...
[22:04:22] <ifvoid> Snow-Man: debian-vote, and dbharris collected some over private email
[22:04:22] <dbharris> Anybody in here have any questions?
[22:04:22] <weasel> stevee: thanks, I don't mind them
[22:04:28] <joeyh> this is also an election without many divisive issues
[22:04:43] <dbharris> (about how the debate is gonna look.)
[22:04:57] <Manoj> Hmm. I wonder how to do that in erc
[22:04:59] <Snow-Man> ifvoid: doh, thanks.
[22:05:01] <dbharris> joeyh: Almost _all_ the questions, I felt, weren't real great ones...
[22:05:23] <Snow-Man> Of course, my current question is probably too technical to be really a DPL issue anyway.
[22:05:26] <stockh0lm> dbharris: what a leader is in their opinion
[22:05:29] <ds-work_> joeyh: maybe that's a good thing
[22:05:31] <dbharris> joeyh: Most of them ended up asking the DPL about their personal opinions on fairly major technilogical stuff ... and yet, I seriously doubt any of them will do anything other than follow or build consensus :)
[22:05:53] <Beowulf> somehow everyone agreed in basic points. At least three of them.
[22:06:02] * Snow-Man hangs his head in shame. :)
[22:06:18] <ifvoid> Snow-Man: I think you can still ask the question here
[22:06:30] <vorlon_> Apparently, the people submitting questions all want a DPL who micromanages releases?
[22:06:31] <Keybuk> could they not post them in turn?
[22:06:34] <davidw> gack
[22:06:35] <Keybuk> posting all at once is hard to read
[22:06:37] <joeyh> yow, candidate flood
[22:06:40] <m2> flood not fun...
[22:06:41] * miro shrugs
[22:06:42] <Kamion> eep, this is not optimal
[22:06:46] <Beowulf> dbharris: arg! stop that! :)
[22:06:51] <Snow-Man> ifvoid: Yeah, but as dbharris said, it'd kind of technical and not really a good question probably. :)
[22:06:52] <tore> one at a time!
[22:07:04] <Snow-Man> I agree with tore.
[22:07:09] <mhp> yumm
[22:07:13] <joeyh> dbharris: might as well start next q now
[22:07:21] <joeyh> or not NM
[22:07:25] <Zomb> hm, statements with smiles say more than they should
[22:07:26] <liw> it would help if the candidates would put their answer on a single logical line
[22:07:27] <Manoj>   /msg them at once, and post sequentially
[22:07:28] * davidw decides to read the on-line version when it's posted
[22:07:30] <Snow-Man> dbharris: Can you maybe ask them to go in some turn, changing the order each time to avoid appearance of favoritism?
[22:07:50] <Snow-Man> Oh, doh, he already said he's gonna do that. :)
[22:07:56] <dbharris> Okay, anybody have any questions?
[22:07:59] <asuffield> liw: they have a habit of using stupid clients that break lines at the wrong places
[22:08:00] <JimButton> Snow-Man: though i don't think the order is relevant
[22:08:02] <joeyh> liw: irc has single logical line length limits :-)
[22:08:02] <part> liw: there is a line length limitation in irc, you know ;)
[22:08:18] <liw> joeyh, good, that limits the political verbiage :)
[22:08:32] <m2> liw, yeah
[22:08:42] <asuffield> the line length isn't the problem so much as the clients which assume that they can _send_ 510 bytes per line and have it work, and thusly drop the ends of the lines
[22:09:21] <ilmari> liw :)
[22:11:06] <JimButton> hmm, question to the candidates to dbharris by msg?
[22:11:27] <ifvoid> JimButton: just ask them here, I guess
[22:11:28] <Snow-Man> JimButton: I think he just wanted it in here.
[22:11:41] <Snow-Man> Though, well, if the candidates are in here they could get an advantage or some shit I guess.
[22:11:41] <JimButton> i'd like to ask moshe whether he thinks that over-ambitious DPLs would cause any harm
[22:11:58] <dbharris> Yeah, just in here.
[22:12:04] <dbharris> Prefix them with my nick, though, so I'll see the highlight.
[22:12:07] <dbharris> (Please and thanks :)
[22:12:08] <JimButton> well, stupid, we are educated people, not necessary to be overly formal :)
[22:12:17] <ifvoid> JimButton: and also whether he think sthe other candidates are overambitious
[22:12:18] <JimButton> dbharris: i'd like to ask moshe whether he thinks that over-ambitious DPLs would cause any harm
[22:12:22] <asuffield> I want to know if the candidates are all human, and not cabbages or something
[22:12:35] <m2> bah, don't people know what the DPL role is
[22:12:43] <JimButton> asuffield: you better don't wanna know :)
[22:12:44] <Snow-Man> asuffield: Better check if their keys are actually signed.
[22:12:45] <ifvoid> asuffield: or some fictiteous person, made up by Manoj
[22:12:47] <asuffield> m2: no, damnit
[22:12:51] <Snow-Man> ifvoid: :)
[22:12:52] <dbharris> JimButton: I'll ask that that be kept to the list.
[22:13:05] <zarq> asuffield, or vampyres, and get in trouble with buffy when she is elected
[22:13:06] <vorlon_> m2: no, but I know that a DPL roll is like a croissant.
[22:13:13] <dbharris> JimButton: (Trying to keep live questions to those of clarification and whatnot.)
[22:13:13] <asuffield> JimButton: you want to elect a cabbage by mistake?
[22:13:21] <m2> vorlon_ lol
[22:13:34] <Md> I'd like to know from the candidates what they think about all the time and resources we waste supporting useless architectures like m68k and sh
[22:13:37] <JimButton> dbharris: ok
[22:13:38] <ds-work_> dbharris: "What will you do to decrease the 'stonewall culture', or do you feel that it is not a problem?"
[22:13:56] <asuffield> I don't think we've ever actually supported sh
[22:14:01] <biella> ds-work_: what is stonewall culture?
[22:14:08] <Snow-Man> Well, that was ugly.
[22:14:09] <vorlon_> Who's wasting resources supporting sh?
[22:14:11] <tbm> hey biella 
[22:14:24] * Snow-Man waits of dbharris to be knocked offline.
[22:14:27] <dbharris> Keep the questions to those of clarification, please.
[22:14:28] <Zomb> I would like to ask the old non-free-yes-or-no question: what would they as DPL do: fight non-DFSG software by the next occasion or tolerate it as it is currently done.
[22:14:36] * joeyh notes that AFAIK "Universal Operating System" was something someone checked into webwml cvs back when, in a fit of grandiosity
[22:14:40] <biella> hey tbm
[22:14:42] <ds-work_> biella: allow me to rephrase that
[22:14:44] <dbharris> Normal questions were solicited for at least a week or two already, we've got all the ones we're gonna get to :)
[22:14:53] * jkm decides that he should just read the transcript, as following is too bloody difficult :)
[22:15:00] <dbharris> Okay, anybody need to ask any questions?
[22:15:03] <part> md: why not drop i386 and only have k-whatever and i686 instead
[22:15:03] <JimButton> they all they the same, what a scandal! :)
[22:15:10] <stockh0lm> lol, moshez is good.
[22:15:18] <Md> part: because it would be stupid
[22:15:18] <asuffield> part: because I have an i386. any further questions?
[22:15:24] <ifvoid> part: there were several flamewars over that 
[22:15:34] * Manoj applies folding functions to the debian-dpl-debate emacs buffer
[22:15:39] <part> ifvoid: like I didn't know that
[22:15:47] <Marvin--> Manoj: foldl or foldr?
[22:15:50] <ifvoid> ;)
[22:15:54] <Beowulf> we have three cloned candidates?
[22:15:56] * Marvin-- has been hacking Haskell today
[22:15:59] <weasel> Marvin--: line wrapping :)
[22:16:04] <biella> Beowulf: haha
[22:16:04] <Snow-Man> Beowulf: Apparently.
[22:16:07] <ifvoid> Beowulf: it looks like it
[22:16:11] <misato> hahaha
[22:16:13] <Snow-Man> The questions kinda suck tho.
[22:16:23] <vorlon_> Beowulf: but one of them accidentally had a little bit of the secret ingredient, "Chemical X", added to the clone vat.
[22:16:28] <Snow-Man> Oh, ok, that last question was decent.
[22:16:34] <weasel> hah
[22:16:36] <Beowulf> no
[22:16:36] <weasel> that's a nice question
[22:16:39] <Kamion> nice
[22:16:42] <asuffield> no it wasn't. it's like asking pop stars what their favorite colour is. :P
[22:16:49] <JimButton> anyone take bets?
[22:16:49] <biella> ds-work_ still working on the rephrase?
[22:16:52] <^iD^> green :P
[22:16:56] <Beowulf> at all. They can vote whatever they want as if they were voting himself :)
[22:16:56] <Manoj> joeyh: the concept has stuck, though
[22:17:04] <Kamion> asuffield: no, it's like asking pop stars what music they like
[22:17:04] <Snow-Man> asuffield: Hey man, at least the answers will be different and thus more interesting.
[22:17:12] * weasel would vote for cowboy neal
[22:17:21] <Snow-Man> haha
[22:17:22] <ds-work_> biella: yes.  I'm at work, which is making this, um, tedious
[22:17:24] <misato> bleh slashdot...
[22:17:25] <dbharris> Yeah, I expect the candidates to hate the people who came up with that question.
[22:17:27] * mhp 'd vote for buffy
[22:17:27] <dbharris> (I'm not telling though :)
[22:17:28] <JimButton> overfiend will vote for tbm, i guess, tbm for bdale, don't know about the others :)
[22:17:30] <Manoj> not robot101?
[22:17:34] <weasel> misato: haven't looked at it in ages
[22:17:42] <m2> bah, pointless nitpicking by martin, I think it was obvious what moshe meant
[22:17:43] <Moppet> dbharris: (too late, but maybe it fits later) How do the candidates intend to achieve univerality without sacrificing individual usefulness, or without the computing universe narrow way down?
[22:17:44] <dbharris> It'll be interesting to see who _wouldn't_ get any votes.
[22:17:44] <Manoj> ooh. yes, of course. buffy.
[22:17:52] * Beowulf hughs Buffy!
[22:18:01] <asuffield> (so, that's at least one person who missed the point)
[22:18:11] <Snow-Man> hehe.
[22:18:14] <joeyh> Moppet: well asked
[22:18:16] <mhp> Manoj: how many seconds do you want, btw? :)
[22:18:17] <JimButton> .oO( what do the candidates think about P and NP? are they equal or not? can they prove it? )
[22:18:24] <Omnic> dbharris: it's not vicious, its just BrandenRobinson being a pita. :)
[22:18:27] <Marvin--> JimButton: yes! I want to know that too! :)
[22:18:34] <dbharris> Omnic: HEhe :)
[22:18:41] <Zomb> dbharris: question: should we stop releasing some architectures when there is not enough qualified manpower to make them ready for release (say, missing D-I developers)?
[22:18:59] <GyrosGeier> My prediction for Moshe is to vote for tbm, and bdale for tbm too
[22:19:10] <liw> dbharris, question: Given that most people are idiots, *should* Debian be a democracy?
[22:19:16] <weasel> GyrosGeier: unfortunately too late to place bets :)
[22:19:26] <mhp> dbharris: question (for the very end, for fun, etc): Did you feed your tamagotchi today?
[22:19:32] <zarq> liw, does that count for debian developers too? :)
[22:19:34] <Kamion> liw: ooh, the "benevolent dictatorship as the best form of government" thing?
[22:19:48] <ifvoid> hmm, quite political of Overfiend
[22:19:57] <dbharris> Okay, everybody, read those responses and make sure you understand them.
[22:20:01] <dbharris> (If not, say so.)
[22:20:04] <JimButton> branden chickened out
[22:20:07] <JimButton> booh
[22:20:30] <Beowulf> GyrosGeier: did you read the before?
[22:20:31] <joeyh> hmm
[22:20:32] <Snow-Man> I think I'm gonna vote for MosheZadka just because his response almost looks decent compared to the others in terms of the pasting and stuff. :)
[22:20:43] <tarzeau> liw: i don't think they are idiots, mostly they're just unknowing, clueless, not informed, or wrong informed
[22:20:48] <weasel> dbharris: question: should we invite developer who left because of problems (like keyring, frustration because of the releasy cycle) to rejoin 
[22:20:50] <_rene_2> GyrosGeier: good prediction..
[22:20:50] <liw> I understand all four are being political...
[22:20:54] <GyrosGeier> Beowulf, no just a guess based on the platforms.
[22:20:55] <biella> haha, going for minimalist aesthetics Snow-Man
[22:20:58] <DanielS> mhp: not that goddamn question :P
[22:21:11] <mhp> DanielS: why? It _was_ answered last year! :)
[22:21:24] <DanielS> yes
[22:21:24] <misato> dbharris: can BrandenRobinson explain [ 1 ] and [ 2 ] two for us :)
[22:21:43] <Moppet> that was explained in the vote announcement
[22:21:44] <Kamion> misato: entries on the ballot paper
[22:21:49] <misato> ok :)
[22:22:01] * misato locates a corner to sit in
[22:22:15] <weasel> dbharris: you can vote candidates on equal levels. like give 2 to two people
[22:22:21] <Moppet> misato: he means he'd either rank them all equally or as inferior to "none of the above"
[22:22:27] <dbharris> weasel: Yeah, I think I covered that.
[22:22:31] <Snow-Man> Hahaha, 'cop-out, dude'
[22:22:32] <GyrosGeier> BTW, is there a web page where we can place bets on the outcome?
[22:22:33] <DanielS> "<MosheZadka> I would vote for Martin Michelmayr."
[22:22:35] <DanielS> bzzt, bzzt, wrong
[22:22:38] <asuffield> those who are unaware of debian's voting process are irrelevant
[22:22:38] <weasel> dbharris: (sorry for my lag)
[22:22:40] <DanielS> michelmayr, heh
[22:22:42] * fd0 /clears
[22:22:55] <weasel> DanielS: better than michelmeier
[22:22:57] <asuffield> they don't get to vote, so their opinions don't count for anything
[22:23:01] * Kamion boggles
[22:23:01] <miro> lol
[22:23:01] <fd0> *G
[22:23:04] <^iD^> hahaha
[22:23:05] <_rene_2> haha
[22:23:06] <Zomb> lol
[22:23:07] <mako> asuffield: heh
[22:23:08] <joeyh> ?
[22:23:09] <KhensU> oh man
[22:23:11] <JimButton> asuffield: no, they can still provide entertainment like those people who ranked only one candidate in the SPI elections, thereby effectively abstaining
[22:23:12] <DanielS> weasel: mikulmyer
[22:23:13] <weasel> because nobody made them, stupid :)
[22:23:17] <Zomb> dbharris: that is not specific enough
[22:23:19] <Kamion> the point of that one being ...?
[22:23:22] <DanielS> dbharris: ???
[22:23:23] <stockh0lm> duh, whos question was that?
[22:23:24] <dbharris> Zomb: Deliberately so, actually.
[22:23:31] <weasel> DanielS: na, meier, mair, mayr, etc are all common versions around here
[22:23:35] <DanielS> "because it's not only technically impossible but legally impossible?"
[22:23:37] <part> whoops
[22:23:38] <dbharris> Zomb: I won't mention it here, but I'll explain some of the reasoning behind it after the candidates have responded.
[22:23:40] <Moppet> cygwin-esque GNU/Win32?
[22:23:41] <vorlon_> dbharris: follow-up for BrandenRobinson: how does he reconcile his vision for proactively addressing issues in Debian with his statement that he would rank Moshe's laissez faire platform equally with the other two candidates?
[22:23:41] <Snow-Man> That question was kinda sucky.
[22:23:48] <JimButton> what a stupid question :)
[22:23:50] <Snow-Man> haha.
[22:23:51] <part> I thought -debate was moderated
[22:23:51] <mhp> oh god, this question sucks
[22:23:51] <dbharris> Hey, it wasn't _mine_ :)
[22:23:52] <JimButton> well, irrelevant :)
[22:23:55] <dbharris> I just thought it was good.
[22:24:00] <VesziDzsi> yeah... who gives a fuck about windows?
[22:24:02] * vorlon_ peers at that question.
[22:24:03] * fd0 points at the win32-qt-license
[22:24:03] <asuffield> (mikklemayor?)
[22:24:04] <weasel> dbharris: of course it was, Fri 23:22:54 <dbharris> Why doesn't Debian offer packages that run under Windows?
[22:24:05] <DanielS> "d00d i did the apt-get install photoshop but i just gotz the .exe and i kant run it!! HELP!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!111"
[22:24:14] <Zomb> okay, okay, one can understand free windows software in wine, others windows-software as part of debian-win32, etc.
[22:24:18] <vorlon_> dbharris: you asked it, we're shooting the messenger.
[22:24:27] <Snow-Man> vorlon++
[22:24:32] <fabbione> dbharris gimme a break! they have to be DPL! no MCSE (Microsoft Certified Slaves of the Empire)
[22:24:33] <fd0> DanielS: lol
[22:24:34] <Kamion> hey, .exes will run with wine+binfmt-support ...
[22:24:35] <weasel> DanielS: you need a space before the first ! !!1
[22:24:37] <Zomb> haha, moshez is confused sa well
[22:24:49] <Snow-Man> 60 seconds is kinda too little I think, I dunno.
[22:25:04] <JimButton> why don't we package MacOS applications like the Finder...
[22:25:10] <DanielS> weasel: bahahahaha
[22:25:12] <liw> I wish Branden would pay attention...
[22:25:12] <BrandenRobinson> Well, that's more a historical or technical question than a DPL question,
[22:25:12] <BrandenRobinson> but what the heck; probably about a year ago there was some interest
[22:25:12] <BrandenRobinson> expressed on the debian-devel mailing list about a Debian GNU/Win32
[22:25:12] <BrandenRobinson> Project.  However, it didn't seem to get much traction or support from most
[22:25:12] <BrandenRobinson> of the people on the mailing list, and it seems to have been abandoned by
[22:25:13] <BrandenRobinson> its proponents.  So I guess the answer is: because no one has yet shown the
[22:25:15] <BrandenRobinson> energy or dedication necessary to make it happen.
[22:25:15] <GyrosGeier> fabbione, that's Minesweeper Consultant and Solitaire Expert...
[22:25:17] <DanielS> Kamion: well, you can't distribute the DLLs
[22:25:24] <fabbione> GyrosGeier also :-)
[22:25:29] <JimButton> whoo
[22:25:31] <Snow-Man> dbharris: A better question would be: What do they think of Debian/Solaris? :)
[22:25:44] * asuffield observes that time limits don't work in a censorless medium
[22:25:46] <Kamion> DanielS: true enough
[22:25:50] <BdaleGarbee> Snow-Man: ;-)
[22:26:03] <T-Bone> lol
[22:26:11] <Snow-Man> asuffield: Hey, they've been alright so far.
[22:26:22] <DanielS> Kamion: ergo it's more or less impossible
[22:26:24] <asuffield> the fiend just demonstrated why they're meaningless
[22:26:25] <ifvoid> what kind of packages would those be?
[22:26:29] <mako> BrandenRobinson: you mean that you'd love to see it happen and are about to start the debian-windows project yourself? :)
[22:26:30] <Keybuk> What are the various packages?
[22:26:37] <ifvoid> I'm not familiar with the LSB
[22:26:42] <ds-work_> biella: "Many developers complain of lack of transparency and difficulty in
[22:26:43] <weasel> ifvoid: apt-get for cygwin would be nice
[22:26:43] <DanielS> Kamion: since the licensing clause says "you may not run this on any platform other than microsoft windows", or somesuch.
[22:26:44] <ds-work_> getting positive responses from parts of the organization.  Aside from appointing delegates, what can and will you do to
[22:26:44] <Snow-Man> rpm is one, I believe.
[22:26:45] <joeyh> dpkg -p lsb
[22:26:46] <ds-work_> address these issues?"
[22:26:52] <fabbione> dbharris isn't LSB based on rpm only?
[22:27:00] <Kamion> DanielS: *we* can't do it, doesn't mean we can't provide the rope for other people to legally hang themselves with
[22:27:04] <Keybuk> Doesn't LSB compliance require rpm installed as default?  I don't like the idea of that - idiot users would install rpms in /usr stomping over deb things
[22:27:05] <liw> LSB uses a subset of the real RPM
[22:27:05] <biella> gotach ds-work_ now i see what you mean by stonewall
[22:27:09] <m2> ARGGH! Why do people ask that kind of questions to DPL candidates? Don't they have a clue what the DPL is?
[22:27:15] <Omnic> fabbione: no, it's Minesweeper Champion and Solitaire Expert.
[22:27:18] <DanielS> BrandenRobinson: bwahahahahaha, too busy talking here to answer :P
[22:27:21] <dbharris> fabbione: Sort of, other people are answering it :)
[22:27:22] <biella> great question... i mean it would be interesting for me that is for sure
[22:27:22] <part> m2: no
[22:27:22] <vorlon_> Keybuk: the rpm package today doesn't let you install rpms on the system directly.
[22:27:40] <Snow-Man> m2: And your questions are..  where?
[22:27:41] <Zomb> Omnic: well, Tetrinet champion IMO
[22:27:41] <taggart> so you use alien to convert first
[22:27:42] <vorlon_> Keybuk: joeyh isn't stupid. :)
[22:27:44] <DanielS> Kamion: shaky legal ground seeing as the only possible use would be to violate a license
[22:27:47] <DanielS> Zomb: TETRINET!
[22:27:52] <liw> dbharris, question: who would be your most important candidates for delegated positions
[22:27:53] <Zomb> DanielS: hey, not now
[22:27:54] <Kamion> DanielS: wine hasn't been shut down yet
[22:27:56] <fabbione> Omnic i have like a list of 30/40 different meanings for MCSE :-)
[22:27:56] <luther_> DanielS: the official wine response is that wine _IS_ a win32 platform, just one not from microsoft.
[22:27:59] <DanielS> heh, here comes buxy
[22:28:01] <weasel> should TETRINET be added to Task and Skills check for new maintainers
[22:28:02] <m2> Snow-Man, mailed a week ago to dbharris
[22:28:08] <Marvin--> weasel: yes
[22:28:09] <Zomb> ROTFL
[22:28:11] <Keybuk> I meant RPM itself, not our rpm deb
[22:28:11] <mhp> weasel: good question
[22:28:12] <Omnic> Zomb: um, what's MCSE got to do with Tetrinet?
[22:28:15] <fd0> weasel: hehe
[22:28:16] <DanielS> Kamion: yes, but they do things other than using the official DLLs
[22:28:18] * mako 's client highlights tetrinet 3 times and he gets excited
[22:28:23] <Pit> haha
[22:28:24] <Kamion> DanielS: *shrug*
[22:28:25] <weasel> haha
[22:28:34] <zarq> mako, you have a highlight on tetrinet?! :P
[22:28:39] <fabbione> weasel no way! dpkg-dev should pre-depepends: gtrinet
[22:28:41] <DanielS> Kamion: ianal, etc, but if we provided something where the sole purpose was to violate the law, we may or may not be screwed
[22:28:44] <mako> zarq: it's like 4 days old and it was a HORRIBLE idea
[22:28:48] <DanielS> fabbione: ktetrinet!
[22:28:59] <DanielS> fabbione: the code for ktetrinet is evil - it was my first kde project, and it shows.
[22:29:02] <biella> mako wants to date a girls called tetrinet, of course he has it highlighted!
[22:29:13] <taggart> the Xlib stuff will be split out into an LSB module in lsb 2.0
[22:29:13] <mako> biella: no!
[22:29:14] <Zomb> Omnic: absolutely nothing, it just come to my mind when thinking about RHCE
[22:29:14] * Keybuk agrees with Branden there - given all Debian's current administrative argument, why ask future DPLs *technical questions*?!
[22:29:15] <zarq> biella, are there any?
[22:29:18] <DanielS> bahahahaha
[22:29:18] <Manoj> people should look at the scope of lsb in lsb discuss
[22:29:20] <Snow-Man> m2: Then if you're lucky dbharris will ask 'em. :)
[22:29:22] <m2> at least one person shows a clue in the answers...
[22:29:23] <Snow-Man> Damn, something is laggy.
[22:29:23] <fabbione> DanielS ok ok... ktetrinet | gtetrinet
[22:29:26] <taggart> as will the libgl another other desktop stuff
[22:29:26] <mako> biella: i want to date girls named TETRIS
[22:29:29] <mako> not tetrinet
[22:29:38] <asuffield> whadda ya know, biella *did* manage to figure out what makes DDs tick, after all
[22:29:46] <biella> right, sorry mako, subtle but important distinction
[22:29:47] <taggart> xlibs already get pulled into base if you use dselect
[22:29:55] <vorlon_> Keybuk: because everyone who knows what the DPL election is actually about has already made their decisions, and has no more questions to ask.  That leaves only technical questions from the clueless.
[22:29:57] <Manoj> they want to provide the standard packaging practices, and have people fall in place, from my skimming of the list (I'd be happy to be proved wrong)
[22:30:00] <DanielS> fabbione: good man :)
[22:30:00] <fd0> dselect sucks ;)
[22:30:05] <mako> tetris is a sexy name.. being named tetrinet would like being named "crack cocaine"
[22:30:06] <Omnic> FIGHT!
[22:30:20] <T-Bone> mako: rotfl
[22:30:28] <biella> mako LOL
[22:30:31] <Kamion> taggart: eh ... what causes that?
[22:30:35] * ilmari agrees with moshes' critique of the question
[22:30:41] * fd0 too
[22:30:44] <DanielS> hey, there's nothing wrong with being called "crack cocaine"
[22:30:48] <Kamion> taggart: certainly wouldn't have thought that'd happen now with dselect's better recommends handling
[22:31:05] <JimButton> DanielS: surely you are not a US citizen :)
[22:31:08] <BdaleGarbee> taggart: technically, anything standard and higher... which != base
[22:31:22] <taggart> BdaleGarbee: true
[22:31:27] <misato> more dpl humor :)
[22:31:32] <DanielS> JimButton: thank fuck, no
[22:31:39] <JimButton> DanielS: it might be dangerous nowadays, they will arrest you as soon as you wear a nametag, for being an enemy combatant or such
[22:31:45] <DanielS> heh
[22:31:45] <fd0> hehe
[22:31:48] <misato> dbharris: can you voice candidates in here?
[22:31:52] <taggart> Kamion: https://people.debian.org/~taggart/lsb/old/index.html
[22:31:55] <ifvoid> ah
[22:31:55] <dbharris> misato: Sure.
[22:31:56] <vorlon_> dbharris: no fair covering up Moshe's trolling as a language barrier issue.
[22:31:58] <misato> or something to make it easier to see who's around
[22:32:04] <weasel> who thinks the DPL's job is to talk to the press?
[22:32:07] <taggart> Kamion: those pages are in the lsb package now
[22:32:16] <weasel> we have a press team for that
[22:32:18] <ds-work_> weasel: the press does
[22:32:19] <dbharris> Think that's it.
[22:32:25] <mako> ds-work_: good answer
[22:32:32] <Hydroxide> weasel: note: _a_ primary job ... and yes, that is who people think of who are not debianers themselves
[22:32:35] <weasel> ds-work_: educate them
[22:32:37] <misato> dbharris: tbm?
[22:32:37] <m2> weasel, the people who don't seem to know what the dpl's job is
[22:32:38] <fd0> dbharris: don't forget tbm ;)
[22:32:46] <Manoj> The LSB, like many good standards bodies, has tended to codify existing practice, not invent stuff. Once there's some momentum, then the LSB can consider requiring all packages to be relocatable, or something like that.
[22:32:53] <stockh0lm> dbharris: everyone agrees? what do we have the press-team for?
[22:32:53] <Manoj> quote from the mailing list
[22:32:54] <JimButton> non-technical press? like vanity fair?
[22:32:55] <dbharris> Oh, right, different nick.
[22:33:03] <weasel> so pretty much everybody == the people without clue.   makes sense
[22:33:03] <dbharris> tbm: Apologies.
[22:33:04] <stockh0lm> dbharris: why not ask leadership questions?
[22:33:05] <Kamion> taggart: right, but I'd like to know what's breaking policy in such a way that that happens
[22:33:11] <dbharris> stockh0lm: These are the questions people wanted asked.
[22:33:12] * asuffield expresses the opinion that this question is founded upon a misconception
[22:33:16] <vx> mhhh, some dpl should establish a politically debian party
[22:33:29] <liw> I regret I didn't start thinking about questions beforehand
[22:33:36] <Omnic> boring. /me goes to shower
[22:33:39] <vorlon_> weasel: given that pretty much everybody on the planet is clueless, I think those two sets overlap rather nicely. :)
[22:33:57] <weasel> yup. sad.
[22:34:06] <taggart> Kamion: dunno and I did those lists a while ago. At one point I was going to track those down but didn't get around to it
[22:34:07] <stockh0lm> besides handling the press, should the dpl also mop the floor at the developers homes?
[22:34:14] <weasel> stockh0lm: yes.
[22:34:15] <fd0> stockh0lm: yeah
[22:34:22] <stockh0lm> i thought so
[22:34:23] <part> most definitely yes
[22:34:23] <BrandenRobinson> no, but they do have to mop the glass in the stalls...
[22:34:23] * weasel also has some dirty dishes...
[22:34:24] <mako> vx: hah.. i read only "Debian party" at first.. 
[22:34:24] <vorlon_> stockh0lm: only if I get him on Thursdays.
[22:34:25] <Kamion> taggart: guess I'll look and kill people next time I'm bored
[22:34:25] <joeyh> Manoj: in fact they're discussing that now. Interesting you should brin it up
[22:34:25] <taggart> Kamion: it was something silly like a base package that happened to have a gui or something
[22:34:29] <mokondo> bill gate is here
[22:34:34] <BrandenRobinson> oh, wait, the political correctness police have told me to shut up :)
[22:34:41] <vx> mako: ;-)
[22:34:49] <weasel> BrandenRobinson: there is such a cabal? :)
[22:34:50] <Manoj> Given the lack of any widely accepted API for doing this stuff, it'd be easier to get buy in if it was given the seal of approval by a recognised authority. That doesn't mean standardised, it just means "the LSB thinks this API is a good idea" type agreement.
[22:35:00] <zygut> 135 in -debate
[22:35:10] <T-Bone> lamont-away: still away heh :^)
[22:35:14] <JimButton> surely, one of the primary responsibilities of the DPL is accepting bribes and embezzling money. question: where do we get the sponsors to make that lucrative?
[22:35:23] * lamont-away autoaways t-bone
[22:35:28] <T-Bone> lol
[22:35:39] <taggart> Manoj: sorry, which "stuff"?
[22:35:41] <ds-work_> how much does a press release cost?
[22:35:55] <ds-work_> er, what are the costs involved?
[22:35:57] <DanielS> dbharris: hmm, you should have a moderator.dpl2003 hostmask :)
[22:35:57] <weasel> dbharris: since moshez ignores my question to wrap his replies, could you be so kind if that's possible
[22:36:00] <BrandenRobinson> depends on the wire service
[22:36:01] <Manoj> taggart: redoing packaging (presumably for LSB packages)
[22:36:02] <asuffield> ds-work_: well, you've got bribes and so on...
[22:36:03] <BrandenRobinson> I could find out from work
[22:36:08] <Kamion> dbharris: "level of ..."?
[22:36:16] <misato> ahh did BdaleGarbee's get cut off?
[22:36:19] <Manoj> and getting distributions to follow suit, perhaps
[22:36:25] <T-Bone> looks like BdaleGarbee got cut
[22:36:41] <T-Bone> and completed ;^)
[22:36:42] <Snow-Man> dbharris: Hey now, we don't need you to critque their responses. ;)
[22:36:54] <dbharris> Sorry :)
[22:37:01] <weasel> dbharris: that's what you get from giving 3 minutes :)
[22:37:06] <dbharris> weasel: Yeah, he? ;)
[22:37:07] * dbharris ducks
[22:37:20] <misato> dbharris: 2 minutes seems about right :)
[22:37:26] * joeyh pushes for 30 second time limits
[22:37:32] <misato> the 60 second one got bad responses
[22:37:43] <HoserHead> Lindows.com were talking about releasing a debconf 2 press release, and mentioned > $US 1000 for the cost
[22:37:51] <weasel> ew
[22:37:53] <ifvoid> wow
[22:38:00] <BdaleGarbee> misato/T-Bone: I posted the last line
[22:38:06] <misato> BdaleGarbee: thanks 
[22:38:06] <vorlon_> depends on how widely you want the press release disseminated.
[22:38:11] <ifvoid> HoserHead: do they hire a professional writer or something?
[22:38:13] <T-Bone> BdaleGarbee: yup got that :^)
[22:38:23] <weasel> we could setup a spam bot on irc for our press releases..
[22:38:23] <Snow-Man> dbharris: You need to go back to giving some time for us to read and for the candidates to read/respond.
[22:38:29] <mako> 1000USD?
[22:38:31] <HoserHead> ifvoid: the wire services was the main component of the cost I think
[22:38:36] <dbharris> Snow-Man: I dunno, we're giving three-four minutes or so.
[22:38:37] <vorlon_> you can do press releases to local media and on your website for no cost, usually.
[22:38:43] <dbharris> Snow-Man: But I'll wait longer then :)
[22:38:44] <JimButton> weasel: oh yeah, that has proved to be very effective :)
[22:38:45] <HoserHead> I don't know if it was just Michael Robertson being his usual self or true though
[22:38:46] <Moppet_> writing the things is pretty easy; there are books that explain how it's done
[22:38:51] <Kamion> debian-announce> not exactly overwhelming == practically nil
[22:39:08] <BrandenRobinson> I'm practicing the political euphemism, Kamion...  ;-)
[22:39:12] <Kamion> compare to the old days when Bruce used to post interesting stuff there from time to time (well, you might disagree, but at least it was active)
[22:39:13] <weasel> Kamion: well, 2.2r7 got caught by spam assassin...
[22:39:14] <Snow-Man> dbharris: Erm..  17:36 was when the last paste finished and by 17:37 you were saying 'on to the next question'..
[22:39:21] <Snow-Man> dbharris: (Localtime here anyway)
[22:39:22] <DanielS> weasel: hahaha
[22:39:23] <Manoj> who is Michael Robertson?
[22:39:25] <dbharris> Snow-Man: I got used to people not asking questions. :)
[22:39:27] <dbharris> misato: Lindows CEO.
[22:39:37] <Snow-Man> dbharris: Well, quite it. :P
[22:39:39] <Snow-Man> -e
[22:39:40] <Moppet_> dbharris: what level of press attention should debian be getting, e.g. as compared to the commercial Linux vendors?
[22:39:40] <dbharris> Snow-Man: I'll try.
[22:39:41] <HoserHead> Manoj: CEO of Lindows.com and formerly mp3.com
[22:39:47] <Manoj> ah
[22:39:52] <misato> err what did I ask about that? :)
[22:40:02] <part> weasel: better yet, buy a "millions" cd from a spammer and use the addresses to reach some thousands of people
[22:40:06] <Snow-Man> What happens if you have to take a potty break?
[22:40:08] * Snow-Man ducks.
[22:40:09] * misato points at another person with a name starting in m
[22:40:13] <m2> part, ROTFL!
[22:40:17] <weasel> part: yea, we can use murphy for that
[22:40:23] <Snow-Man> dbharris: Where's our commercial break man?! <grin>
[22:40:32] <asuffield> weasel: only take a couple of releases to deliver all the mail...
[22:40:35] <tarzeau> we need debian posters, no?
[22:40:39] <fd0> hm.
[22:40:46] <ifvoid> tarzeau: yeah
[22:40:49] <vorlon_> weasel: until the list masters "accidentally" crossassassin it all. ;)
[22:40:49] <DanielS> dbharris: It depends on what *kind* of attention - do you want to pump it out to the NYT, or do you want to just stick with LWN?
[22:40:53] <vx> and debian flags
[22:40:56] <weasel> :)
[22:40:59] <tarzeau> ifvoid: really big posters, for at work and stickers for cars!
[22:41:01] <biella> hi! ds-work_ just realized who i am talking to
[22:41:05] <JimButton> DanielS: fox news channel, of course
[22:41:13] <DanielS> dbharris: Traditionally, Debian and the commercial distributions have been gunning for different markets. The candidate question in all of this is: should we be gunning for the same market?
[22:41:15] <zarq> and a debian song
[22:41:20] <vx> at least
[22:41:26] <JimButton> debian in the "o'reilly factor"
[22:41:27] <ifvoid> tarzeau: printing posters is expensive though, unless you print very many of them
[22:41:29] <dbharris> DanielS: Yeah, I'm pointing this out in a bit of a roundabout way.
[22:41:31] <DanielS> JimButton: Debian "FUCK THE TERRISTS, BOMB THE ARABS" 3.0 was release, and we're going to war!
[22:41:33] <Kamion> zarq: god no, not if it's anything like the free software song
[22:41:36] <vx> a band probably?
[22:41:41] <JimButton> nucular
[22:41:47] <taggart> I think we should have a pimp-ass both at the linux tradeshows where we give out lots of free cds and poke fun at the commercial distros :)
[22:41:57] <DanielS> dbharris: Ah, well I was writing that before I saw the responses or followups :)
[22:42:01] <dbharris> DanielS: :)
[22:42:01] <ds-work_> dbharris: from a few minutes of googling, I'm guessing $50-$1000 USD, depending on the services provided
[22:42:09] * Manoj thinks debian should not gun for a market. it distracts the project from its primary purpose, which is to make my machines more efficient
[22:42:10] <zarq> kamion, it'd have to pass a gr of course
[22:42:11] <mako> taggart: totally
[22:42:20] <ifvoid> Manoj: I agree
[22:42:27] <Kamion> Manoj: no no, *my* machines
[22:42:34] <asuffield> your both wrong. *mine*.
[22:42:37] <zarq> manoj, then how is buffy ever going to notice?
[22:42:37] <biella> taggart, mako, with a tetrinet game going on the whole time
[22:42:38] <asuffield> s/your/you're/
[22:42:40] <Snow-Man> dbharris: Do any of the candidates have intentions to attempt to resolve the "We can't buy support for it." problems companies have? :)
[22:42:42] <Kamion> taggart: you don't do that when you're manning a booth already? :)
[22:42:45] <tarzeau> the things is afaik debian has more software packaged than anyone else, but nobody knows... how can that be good marketing?
[22:42:50] <DanielS> Manoj: that's my personal PoV, but you can't really state a question (well, a *good* question), like that.
[22:43:00] <DanielS> Manoj: when posing a question, my personal view is neither here nor there.
[22:43:08] <Manoj> zarq: buffy is more interested in fighting evil than gunning for markets
[22:43:09] * T-Bone lols at that question :^)
[22:43:18] <Kamion> and now the hairy politics start
[22:43:23] <m2> zarq, you want the project to pay for a press release, "Debian digs Buffy"?
[22:43:23] <biella> haha
[22:43:24] <asuffield> I thought buffy was more interested in clothes that don't make her look fat
[22:43:31] <part> haha
[22:43:33] <taggart> Kamion: yeah but I was thinking one of the big fancy booths and everyone wears a debian uniform and stuff
[22:43:35] <zarq> m2, no i want buffy for dpl
[22:43:40] <taggart> biella: yeah!
[22:43:40] <JimButton> might add to the question that some developers seem to not even know how to request removal of packages, how could they get through NM? *ducks away*
[22:43:42] <Manoj> DanielS: that is not a personal PoV, that is a fundamewntal pillar of Debian philosophy
[22:43:45] <dbharris> I think _somebody_ had a prepared answer for this one ;)
[22:43:51] <_rene_2> JimButton: madduck?`:)
[22:43:52] <dbharris> (Or at least they type way faster than me.)
[22:43:58] <ifvoid> dbharris: only one of them?
[22:43:58] <weasel> JimButton: don't get me started on that particular dd.
[22:43:59] <dbharris> Yes. Somebody did. :)
[22:44:00] <taggart> biella: or frozen-bubble/moonbuggy/etc
[22:44:01] <T-Bone> dbharris: lol
[22:44:04] <fd0> JimButton: *G*
[22:44:10] <dbharris> ifvoid: If the others did, they're being more subtle about it. :)
[22:44:10] <mhp> asciijump!
[22:44:12] <fd0> JimButton: i just read debian-devel ;)
[22:44:13] <Manoj> DanielS: we are all in it for enlightend self interest; gunning for markets is a red herring 
[22:44:19] <ds-work_> "If you were to join Debian today, how long would you expect your nm process to be?"
[22:44:20] <biella> taggart: air hockey would be ideal in my universe but perhaps to meat-world
[22:44:21] <JimButton> weasel: :)
[22:44:33] <m2> "perceived"? ROTFL!
[22:44:34] <DanielS> Manoj: you're reading too much into my mind
[22:44:37] <DanielS> Manoj: stop it!
[22:44:38] <weasel> JimButton: the responses on d-d were pretty unambiguous: GO RTFM
[22:44:41] <taggart> Kamion: and we have a little "theater" where we give debian classes :)
[22:44:41] <tarzeau> mhp: GNU Robbo! and have you tried noeGNUd ? 
[22:44:51] <Kamion> Manoj: for some people, a market may be part of their enlightened self-interest ...
[22:44:52] <JimButton> weasel: he, i could not resist either :)
[22:44:53] <mhp> tarzeau: note yet :(
[22:44:57] <taggart> biella: the pinball machines at previous LWE were nice
[22:44:58] <weasel> JimButton: neither could I
[22:45:15] <DanielS> taggart: hmm, when I read your uniforms comment, it was in the context of Buffy
[22:45:27] <Manoj> Kamion: well, perhaps, but I can't imagine it being a sizeable segment of the dd population
[22:45:30] <DanielS> taggart: so my first thought was all Debianites in tight leather pants and boob-enhancing shirts.
[22:45:32] * DanielS shudders.
[22:45:41] <weasel> JimButton: it was hard to resist answering with 'How the fuck did you get a DD' tho
[22:45:42] <Manoj> biella: are you taking notes?
[22:45:48] <misato> someone is writing essays for this debate...
[22:45:58] <biella> Manoj well mostly trying to follow
[22:46:00] <weasel> who is going to read all that
[22:46:04] <biella> i will write notes later
[22:46:10] * Manoj suddenly felt like being on a slide under a microsocope ;-)
[22:46:12] <m2> was branden expecting the question or what? no way the wrote that in two minutes
[22:46:17] <part> gaah, that needs to be reformatted
[22:46:19] <biella> it is hard enough to follow discussion on this channel
[22:46:19] <weasel> BrandenRobinson: a little bit shorter perhaps?
[22:46:27] <ifvoid> he got cut off
[22:46:28] <Kamion> end of BR's response was trimmed again
[22:46:30] <biella> or at least someone who has only used IRC for like 9 months
[22:46:58] <misato> Kamion: it was BdaleGarbee last time not BrandenRobinson :)
[22:47:01] <JimButton> dbharris: q for moshe: does he think the long delays are due to intense scrutiny of the NM candidates?
[22:47:19] <JimButton> fwiw, i can't see that
[22:47:22] <asuffield> biella: it's an acquired skill. practice reading a book while watching TV :P
[22:47:22] <fabbione> dbharris can you ask that question also in another way? given the actual NM process: how would they feel going through it again?
[22:47:22] <Kamion> biella: I'm in full speed-reading mode here ...
[22:47:50] <biella> haha asuffield
[22:48:23] * joeyh suggests petting a cat at the same time, and s/tv/radio/
[22:48:25] <biella> good rephrasing fabbione
[22:48:37] <fabbione> biella thanks
[22:48:38] <biella> joeyh and rubbing your tummy
[22:48:54] <biella> we all have here since we spend too much time hooked to computers
[22:49:30] <Zomb> dbharris: you can increase the size of the text buffer on-the-fly
[22:49:36] <asuffield> (I really have done that before now. it's not hard, and it's more or less the same thing - keeping several ideas in your head at once)
[22:49:38] * T-Bone thinks that "delays" in procedures are also a way to check one's real willingness and motivation
[22:49:38] <fabbione> BrandenRobinson thanks
[22:49:52] <Manoj> hell. I dunno if I would ever make it through NM at all
[22:49:54] <misato> Zomb: think it might be an X clipboard thing? 
[22:50:01] <Manoj> I never even got a call from elmo
[22:50:04] <weasel> .oO( <tbm> I would just be my own AM )
[22:50:05] <JimButton> T-Bone: that tests endurance but not much more
[22:50:09] <asuffield> "There's nothing wrong with circumcision, as long as it's happening to somebody else"
[22:50:33] <Manoj> I didn't even get introduced to IanM
[22:50:34] <T-Bone> JimButton: yes, but endurance comes from motivation, doesn't it?
[22:50:43] <zygut> It is nice to know where you are in the process and that you haven't been lost/forgotten/deleted
[22:50:46] <liw> "There's nothing wrong with circumcision, as long as you're doing it to yourself"
[22:50:49] <Kamion> asuffield: playing the cello while humming a different tune
[22:50:51] <DanielS> weasel: bahahahaha
[22:50:52] <vorlon_> Manoj: I think after your first three AMs ended with blood streaming out of their ears, they'd let you in to stop the bloodshed. ;)
[22:51:05] <JimButton> T-Bone: there are motivated people who are not so dedicated to debian that they would rather support a different project
[22:51:10] <misato> hahaha :)
[22:51:21] <T-Bone> JimButton: touche :)
[22:51:31] <asuffield> Kamion: meh, any competant musician should be able to do that :)
[22:51:38] <asuffield> assuming they can play the cello
[22:51:38] <misato> BrandenRobinson: do you actually feel like Mr. Perot in there?
[22:51:48] <biella> also some people see that higher profile people get processed more quiclkly so,metimes which turns some others off (jst relaying what i have heard)
[22:51:52] <BrandenRobinson> misato: reference humor
[22:51:55] <Black_Engus> can we still get free lwn subscriptions as dd's?
[22:51:56] <BrandenRobinson> Dana Carvey, Saturday Night Live
[22:52:00] <Kamion> asuffield: certainly takes concentration though, especially if you're inventing the medley on the fly
[22:52:05] <Snow-Man> There's a fun question.
[22:52:07] <ilmari> interesting question
[22:52:07] <weasel> dbharris: when was this question originally sent to you
[22:52:08] <misato> yea yea, I Know ;) it was classy ;)
[22:52:10] <ds-work_> "can I finish?"
[22:52:11] <joeyh> no, there are NO benefits to being a DD
[22:52:13] <dbharris> weasel: Hmm...
[22:52:15] <asuffield> biella: this is because higher profile people are easier to process. there's plenty of material to look at
[22:52:16] * liw happily pays for lwn.net subscriptions
[22:52:21] <Snow-Man> ok, bathroom break time.
[22:52:22] <JimButton> ha!
[22:52:23] <dbharris> weasel: I dunno, I'd have to look it up. More than two days ago, less than two weeks ago.
[22:52:26] <weasel> dbharris: before today's debian-devel batch?
[22:52:27] <JimButton> good question :)
[22:52:30] <weasel> ah ok. thanks
[22:52:34] <asuffield> Kamion: now that's a little harder. I was never any good at improvisation
[22:52:38] <fd0> weasel: *G*
[22:52:41] <dbharris> weasel: It also doesn't bear particular resemblance to the original question, it needed the be massaged to be more applicable to all the candidates.
[22:52:46] <DanielS> dbharris: how do you define "proven themselves technically inept"?
[22:52:56] <weasel> DanielS: not being able to read the reference.
[22:52:56] <DanielS> that should probably be a part of the responses
[22:52:57] <Kamion> DanielS: consensus, I'd say
[22:53:09] <dbharris> DanielS: I expect the candidates to understand what those requirements are. I would think "consensus" would be a biggie.
[22:53:17] <DanielS> Kamion: where? -private? -devel? ctte? debianplanet?
[22:53:23] <Zomb> dbharris, followup: how decides who is inept? I know Overfiend personally hates me, should I cry about?
[22:53:23] <biella> asuffield: true although there should not be a huge difference in time of processing.
[22:53:26] * joeyh wonders if packaging a rm -rf / counts. Of so, guilty..
[22:53:29] <joeyh> s/of/if/
[22:53:29] <DanielS> Kamion: GR!
[22:53:34] <wyver> dbharris: i would like to know what the candidates are thinking about the tcpa
[22:53:39] <ds-work_> Kamion: consensus == last message in a flamewar?
[22:53:40] <Kamion> DanielS: "rough consensus and working code"
[22:53:40] <DanielS> joeyh: that's not ineptness, that's total prickness.
[22:53:43] <DanielS> ds-work_: heh
[22:53:44] <JimButton> Zomb: you are not inept, i don't think overfiend would imply that
[22:53:46] <Hydroxide> dbharris: how much longer will the debate last, and will there be a verbatim transcript available? I need to figure out whether to go eat now or not :)
[22:53:47] <weasel> joeyh: just put it into the description and give it a sounding name.  like "kde3".
[22:53:59] <dbharris> Hydroxide: There will be a good transcript :)
[22:54:01] <joeyh> bah, it was in a menu-method. You understand that minilanguage?
[22:54:02] <dbharris> Hydroxide: 6 minutes.
[22:54:03] <vx> yes, how to handle this fucking tcpa shit
[22:54:19] <Hydroxide> dbharris: ok, in that case, I will stay and also look forward to the transcript :-)
[22:54:25] <stockh0lm> joeyh: did anyone ever do that?
[22:54:28] <BrandenRobinson> JimButton: Zomb just fears what I would do to him if I were DPL *and* had his personality  >;-)
[22:54:33] * Snow-Man attempts to catch up.
[22:54:34] <joeyh> stockh0lm: I did.
[22:54:39] <joeyh> I did catch it in testing though
[22:54:39] <stockh0lm> oh
[22:54:40] <fd0> he
[22:54:45] <Kamion> the advocate system is vulnerable to peer pressure
[22:54:52] <fd0> what about RMS, still stuck in the queue, being "still not ready for t&s"?
[22:54:55] <fd0> ;)
[22:54:56] <JimButton> Kamion: why?
[22:54:58] <Kamion> (unavoidably so, but hey)
[22:55:08] <asuffield> three trailing spaces. that channel isn't +c, damnit :P
[22:55:15] <Kamion> JimButton: "hey, you're my friend, will you advocate me?"
[22:55:16] <Zomb> BrandenRobinson: wrong. I claim you to be unable to judge in flamewars without prejudices.
[22:55:30] <JimButton> Kamion: oh, ok, that
[22:55:36] <BrandenRobinson> Zomb: thanks for taking obvious note of a joke ;-)
[22:55:38] <weasel> dbharris: Debian Machine Use Policy
[22:55:44] <dbharris> Okay, sorry everybody, but there have been some really great questions given at the last minute - none of which we're gonna have time for.
[22:55:57] <jbailey> Is not knowing DMUP a sign of ineptness? =)
[22:55:58] <m2> *please* every DD show know what DMUP is
[22:55:58] <vorlon_> dbharris: anyone who doesn't know 'DMUP' is irrelevant to the election. ;P
[22:56:04] <Moppet_> dbharris: Is the Debian project an environment in which a consciously underskilled DD can ask questions without undue embarrassment or public humiliation?
[22:56:05] <dbharris> vorlon_: Well, for the spectators. :)
[22:56:08] <weasel> jbailey: you agreed to it.
[22:56:10] <DanielS> m2: yes, but this is not DD-only
[22:56:12] <JimButton> Kamion: but possibly that friend would feel at least a bit compelled to help his pal not to completely embarrass him
[22:56:16] <DanielS> m2: the debianplanet crowd will be here, remember.
[22:56:18] <Kamion> JimButton: well, true
[22:56:18] <misato> dbharris: what mistakes have you made in the process of your time as a debian developer and did it help you become a better canidate?
[22:56:20] <vorlon_> dbharris: The spectators can use google.  Get to the point. ;)
[22:56:23] <Zomb> BrandenRobinson: no, no jokes. Heating the flamewars is not funny and extremely disturbing for the work-flow.
[22:56:28] <jbailey> weasel: I know what it is.   It's a joke, dude.
[22:56:38] <part> m2: I thought it was a MUST, not a SHOULD
[22:56:44] <Manoj> Moppet_: do we want it to be a project like that?
[22:56:49] * fd0 goes to bod.
[22:56:52] <fd0> eh
[22:56:54] <fd0> s/bod/bed
[22:56:54] <fd0> cu.
[22:56:55] <DanielS> Moppet_: the answer is a resounding "no"
[22:56:57] <weasel> fd0: n8
[22:57:01] <DanielS> at least not while we have Overfiend :P
[22:57:21] * fd0 is going to read the log tomorrow =)
[22:57:33] <DanielS> man
[22:57:34] <Snow-Man> hahaha
[22:57:36] <DanielS> i'd get rid of the windows
[22:57:42] <DanielS> and the tv
[22:57:44] <Snow-Man> Shit just went downhill *real* fast.
[22:57:50] <DanielS> but fuck me, that's a hard question
[22:57:56] <T-Bone> dbharris: i see a missing item: "girlfriend/wife" :^)
[22:57:59] * T-Bone ducks
[22:58:00] * weasel votes for super Cow Powers. Mooooooo
[22:58:02] <Kamion> point to the man in Israel
[22:58:02] <DanielS> branden's superpower would probably be like 14 tentacles to tentacle-rape Demonishi with :P
[22:58:06] <DanielS> T-Bone: bahahahaha
[22:58:10] <asuffield> oh eris. overfiend is going to ask for a monster-sized penis
[22:58:16] <DanielS> or an enormous penis ready to sodomize at will.
[22:58:16] <DanielS> yeah
[22:58:19] <JimButton> point-set topology is lame
[22:58:40] <azeem> gah, tbm goes for the female votes...
[22:58:44] <Kamion> ah, we were close
[22:58:50] <dbharris> azeem: All three of them?
[22:59:01] <tbm> azeem: yeah, as if there were so many
[22:59:01] <azeem> ;)
[22:59:01] <biella> <BdaleGarbee> 1. Built pieces of amateur satellites in my basement., BdaleGarbee, come on, you call that geeky?
[22:59:07] <weasel> haha
[22:59:08] <DanielS> bahahahahaha, I like Bdale's.
[22:59:10] <Hydroxide> ah, nice choice of superpower bdale...
[22:59:12] <Kamion> Bdale takes the logical approach to superpowers
[22:59:15] <biella> bdale or is that just part of your superpower role?
[22:59:21] <DanielS> tbm: don't laugh, Demonishi may return :P
[22:59:23] <weasel> tbm: you stole that from me.
[22:59:30] <mako> tbm: you are bragging :)
[22:59:42] <tbm> blurgh, you guys suck. I'm just _honest_
[22:59:50] <jbailey> I thought that said super calculus mind power.
[22:59:59] <biella> tbm that is the cutest thing i have ever seen said by a dd
[23:00:00] <jbailey> Which might also qualify under 'geekiest thing'
[23:00:13] * mhp ^5s tbm for his second answer to 3
[23:00:14] <weasel> nice timing
[23:00:15] * ilmari thinks this debate was way too short
[23:00:18] <asuffield> biella: not saying much
[23:00:32] <Moppet_> much too short
[23:00:33] <mako> asuffield: i'll have you know i say cute things all the time
[23:00:36] <_rene_2> ilmari: ACK
[23:00:41] <Moppet_> given the bandwidth of the forum
[23:00:42] <biella> mako, tru dat
[23:00:44] <Manoj> Hmm. made a shark harpoon from a drill pipe, gas compressor, and crane, and helped shoot a shark for shark fin soup.
[23:00:48] <weasel> Moppet_: it's 1am where moshez is..
[23:01:01] <Manoj> used an old drill bit for the tip.
[23:01:04] <tbm> weasel: I didn't see your comment, but yeah, I surely stole it from you.
[23:01:05] <Snow-Man> mass-exodus time I guess.
[23:01:16] <DanielS> s/providing the server/providing the network/
[23:01:17] <azeem> candidates: thanks for the debate
[23:01:17] <weasel> tbm: bad master
[23:01:20] <stockh0lm> jbailey: i thought you were in NS?
[23:01:30] <tbm> weasel: good slave
[23:01:30] <jbailey> stockh0lm: The flight's tomorrow morning.
[23:01:32] <weasel> master is our friend.
[23:01:35] <Manoj> the harpoon was then 40 feet long, with a 6 foot tip, and we had a 10k horse power motor driving the compressor
[23:01:36] <jbailey> stockh0lm: I'm not off work yet. =)
[23:01:37] <weasel> filthy hobbit
[23:01:41] <jbailey> well, a minute ago. =)
