#use wml::debian::template title="Platform for Stefano Zacchiroli" BARETITLE="true" NOHEADER="true"
#include "$(ENGLISHDIR)/vote/style.inc"

{#style#:
<STYLE type="text/css">
.li-itemize{margin:1ex 0ex;}
.li-enumerate{margin:1ex 0ex;}
.dd-description{margin:0ex 0ex 1ex 4ex;}
.dt-description{margin:0ex;}
.toc{list-style:none;}
.thefootnotes{text-align:left;margin:0ex;}
.dt-thefootnotes{margin:0em;}
.dd-thefootnotes{margin:0em 0em 0em 2em;}
.footnoterule{margin:1em auto 1em 0px;width:50%;}
.caption{padding-left:2ex; padding-right:2ex; margin-left:auto; margin-right:auto}
.title{margin:2ex auto;text-align:center}
.center{text-align:center;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;}
.flushleft{text-align:left;margin-left:0ex;margin-right:auto;}
.flushright{text-align:right;margin-left:auto;margin-right:0ex;}
DIV TABLE{margin-left:inherit;margin-right:inherit;}
PRE{text-align:left;margin-left:0ex;margin-right:auto;}
BLOCKQUOTE{margin-left:4ex;margin-right:4ex;text-align:left;}
TD P{margin:0px;}
.boxed{border:1px solid black}
.textboxed{border:1px solid black}
.vbar{border:none;width:2px;background-color:black;}
.hbar{border:none;height:2px;width:100%;background-color:black;}
.hfill{border:none;height:1px;width:200%;background-color:black;}
.vdisplay{border-collapse:separate;border-spacing:2px;width:auto; empty-cells:show; border:2px solid red;}
.vdcell{white-space:nowrap;padding:0px;width:auto; border:2px solid green;}
.display{border-collapse:separate;border-spacing:2px;width:auto; border:none;}
.dcell{white-space:nowrap;padding:0px;width:auto; border:none;}
.dcenter{margin:0ex auto;}
.vdcenter{border:solid #FF8000 2px; margin:0ex auto;}
.minipage{text-align:left; margin-left:0em; margin-right:auto;}
.marginpar{border:solid thin black; width:20%; text-align:left;}
.marginparleft{float:left; margin-left:0ex; margin-right:1ex;}
.marginparright{float:right; margin-left:1ex; margin-right:0ex;}
.theorem{text-align:left;margin:1ex auto 1ex 0ex;}
.part{margin:2ex auto;text-align:center}
.rfloat{float:right;}
body{font-family: sans-serif;
font-size: medium;
}
h1, h2, h3, h4{font-weight: normal;
}
h1{font-size: 140%;}
h2{font-size: 130%;
border-bottom: solid 1pt;
}
h3{font-size: 115%;}
h4{font-size: 105%;}
.paragraph{font-size: 105%;
font-weight: normal;
/* text-decoration: underline; */
}
.alphaenum ol{list-style-type: lower-alpha;
}
.mantra{border: solid;
border-width: 1px;
border-color: #aaa;
background: #eee;
margin: 2pt;
margin-left: 8%;
margin-right: 8%;
padding: 2pt;
}
.summary{border: solid;
border-width: 1px;
border-color: #aaa;
background: #eee;
margin: 2pt;
padding: 2pt;
}
a{text-decoration: none;}
a:hover{text-decoration: underline;}
.floatright{float: right;
}
.mini {font-size:.6em}
</STYLE>
:##}

<!--HEVEA command line is: /usr/bin/hevea -fix platform.tex -->
<!--CUT DEF section 1 --><TABLE CLASS="title"><TR><TD><H1 CLASS="titlemain">DPL platform</H1><H3 CLASS="titlerest">Stefano Zacchiroli<BR>
 <A HREF="mailto:zack@debian.org"><TT>zack@debian.org</TT></A><BR>
 <A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack"><TT>http://upsilon.cc/~zack</TT></A></H3><H3 CLASS="titlerest">March 11, 2012</H3></TD></TR>
</TABLE><DIV CLASS="flushright">
<p class="mini">
Version: <TT>4.1.2</TT><BR>
 Other formats:
<A HREF="http://www.upsilon.cc/~zack/hacking/debian/dpl-2012/platform.html">.html</A>,
<A HREF="http://www.upsilon.cc/~zack/hacking/debian/dpl-2012/platform.pdf">.pdf</A>.<BR>
 More info <A HREF="http://www.upsilon.cc/~zack/hacking/debian/dpl-2012/">on my
homepage</A>.
</DIV><P>

I’m <A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack">Stefano Zacchiroli</A>—mostly known as
<EM>Zack</EM>. I’ve been serving as DPL during the 2010–2012 period (2 terms)
and I’m seeking re-election for the next term.</P><P>If you are familiar with
<A HREF="http://wiki.debian.org/Teams/DPL#Bits_from_the_DPL">my past work as DPL</A>,
this platform can be summarized as follows:
</P><OL CLASS="enumerate"><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">
I’m ready to serve as DPL in the same way and style as before for
another, and last, term
</LI><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">since the very beginning of the term, I will work to ensure a smooth
transition to the future DPL inviting interested developers to participate in
DPL activities, and periodically/publicly review the state of the DPL agenda
</LI></OL><P>If you are not familiar with my past work as DPL or if you simply want to know
more, the rest of this platform: provides background information about me
(Section <A HREF="#sec:intro">1</A>), describes my main goals as DPL
(Section <A HREF="#sec:goals">2</A>), and highlights more specific plans for the next term
(Section <A HREF="#sec:itches">2.3</A>). Rebuttals can be found in
Appendix <A HREF="#sec:rebuttals">A</A>.</P><!--TOC section Introduction-->
<H2 CLASS="section"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc1">1</A>  Introduction</H2><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:intro"></A></P><!--TOC subsection About me-->
<H3 CLASS="subsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc2">1.1</A>  About me</H3><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:aboutme"></A></P><P>I became a Debian Developer (DD) in March 2001, shortly after the NM process
was introduced. My Debian involvement has been through two distinct
phases. Initially I only cared about my packages, ignoring the community: no
IRC, no <TT>-devel</TT> subscription, etc. 3 years later at LinuxTag I
discovered Debian as a <EM>community</EM> and got fascinated by it, gradually
increasing my involvement in the project. My most noteworthy activities during
all these years have been:
</P><DL CLASS="description"><DT CLASS="dt-description">
<B>DPL</B></DT><DD CLASS="dd-description"> I’ve been serving as DPL for the past two terms since April 2010.
Since then, I’ve reported about all my DPL activities monthly and daily in
various forms of <A HREF="http://wiki.debian.org/Teams/DPL">“bits from DPL”</A>
and on <A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/tags/dpl/">on my blog</A>.</DD><DT CLASS="dt-description"><B>PTS</B></DT><DD CLASS="dd-description"> I’ve been co-maintaining the
<A HREF="http://packages.qa.debian.org">Package Tracking System (PTS)</A> in
2006–2010, contributing day to day maintenance as well as
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/blog/posts/2008/11/PTS_SOAP_interface/">more</A>
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/blog/posts/2008/08/improved_integration_among_PTS_and_Lintian/">significant</A>
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/blog/posts/2008/01/pts_dehs_integration/">changes</A>;
details are available <A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/tags/pts/">on my
blog</A>. (My initial interest in the PTS came from the desire to
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/blog/posts/2006/09/xs-x-vcs-XXX/">make</A> the
<TT>Vcs-*</TT> fields
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/blog/posts/2006/10/xs-vcs-XXX_almost_there/">popular</A>,
which has eventually led me to write
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/blog/posts/2007/08/debcheckout/"><TT>debcheckout</TT></A>.)</DD><DT CLASS="dt-description"><B>QA</B></DT><DD CLASS="dd-description"> more generally, I’ve been a long time member of the
<A HREF="http://qa.debian.org/">Quality Assurance</A> team: I enjoy thinking of the
project as a whole and looking for new solutions
(e.g. <A HREF="http://wiki.debian.org/UltimateDebianDatabase">UDD</A>,
<A HREF="https://lists.debian.org/debian-project/2009/07/msg00067.html">DD
expiry/WAT</A>, etc.) to persisting problems.</DD><DT CLASS="dt-description"><B>OCaml</B></DT><DD CLASS="dd-description"> Proper support for the <A HREF="http://caml.inria.fr">OCaml</A>
language was my motivation to join the project. I’ve contributed forming the
<A HREF="http://wiki.debian.org/Teams/OCamlTaskForce">Debian OCaml Task
Force</A> where I’ve ranged from the newbie, to leading activities. The team
currently takes care of about
<A HREF="http://pkg-ocaml-maint.alioth.debian.org/debian-ocaml-status.html">150
source packages</A> with
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/research/publications/jfla10-dh-ocaml.pdf">insanely
intricate inter-dependencies</A>, and complex
<A HREF="http://glondu.net/debian/ocaml_transition_monitor.html">transition</A>
needs.</DD><DT CLASS="dt-description"><B>RCBW</B></DT><DD CLASS="dd-description"> From September 2009 to April 2010, I’ve been contributing to fix
one RC bug per day (via NMUs) by starting the <EM>Release Critical Bugs of
the Week</EM> initiative. See
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/hacking/debian/rcbw/">the RCBW page</A> for
motivations and details. Since then, the initiative has been picked up by
others people and I’m immensely proud of it.</DD><DT CLASS="dt-description"><B>AM</B></DT><DD CLASS="dd-description"> I’ve joined the <A HREF="https://nm.debian.org/am/amlist">New Members
Committee</A> in 2009, becoming an Application Manager. I’ve mentored 6
applicants, all of which have become Debian Developers.</DD><DT CLASS="dt-description"><B>Packaging</B></DT><DD CLASS="dd-description"> I’ve maintained several dozens packages during my Debian
involvement. Beside OCaml-related packages, I’m proud of various
contributions to
<A HREF="http://packages.debian.org/sid/devscripts"><TT>devscripts</TT></A>,
<A HREF="http://packages.debian.org/sid/vim"><TT>vim</TT></A>, and
<A HREF="http://packages.debian.org/sid/python-debian"><TT>python-debian</TT></A>.</DD></DL><P>Believing in the community as the real strength of Debian, I’m a regular
attendee (and sometimes little helper of the organization team) of
<A HREF="http://www.debconf.org/">DebConf</A> and of other face to face meetings like
<A HREF="http://wiki.debian.org/BSP/2012/02/fr/Paris">BSPs</A> and
<A HREF="http://wiki.debian.org/Sprints">sprints</A>.</P><P>In real life, I’m an assistant professor of computer science at University
Paris Diderot (<A HREF="http://www.pps.jussieu.fr">PPS</A> lab) as well as a
researcher at <A HREF="http://www.irill.org">IRILL</A>, that regularly sponsors and
organizes Debian-related events. Both places are Debian Developer nests, where
coffee breaks frequently turn into exciting Debian discussions. I mainly work
on the applications of formal methods to the study of component-based systems
such as FOSS distributions. As part of the work of my research team, we
regularly contributes back tools to the community such as
<A HREF="http://packages.debian.org/sid/edos-distcheck"><TT>edos-distcheck</TT></A>,
<A HREF="http://edos.debian.net"><TT>edos.debian.net</TT></A>, and other quality
assurance services used daily by Debian and other distributions. I also
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/teaching/">teach</A> classes to computer science
undergraduate, often getting the chance to introduce students to the practices
and tools of Free Software development.</P><!--TOC subsection Why I am seeking re-election-->
<H3 CLASS="subsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc3">1.2</A>  Why I am seeking re-election</H3><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:whyrunning"></A></P><P>My original motivations for running for DPL are well explained
<A HREF="$(VOTE)/2010/platforms/zack#htoc3">in a former
platform of mine</A>. They are all still valid and motivating reasons for me to
serve as DPL for another year.</P><P>But this time is special in its own way, and I have three more reasons for
seeking reelection:
</P><OL CLASS="enumerate"><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">
Serving as DPL is mostly about, well, <EM>serving</EM> the Debian Project
in specific areas: relationship with others, helping discussions, decision
making in areas where no one else has responsibility, etc. I think I have
managed to offer a decent service in those areas to the Project for the past
two terms and I have the energy to do so for one more year.</LI><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">With two years experience as DPL, I have got to discover what I believe
to be the intrinsic limits of the institution as it is run today, most
notably in terms of transparency of what the DPL “job” is about and of
“training” of future DPLs. I have tried to mitigate those limitations by
(i) thoroughly documenting my DPL activities and by (ii) periodically calling
for helpers who wanted to learn more about the DPL job by actually
<EM>working</EM> on DPL-ish tasks. That has not worked as well as I expected;
in particular (ii) doesn’t seem to have worked <EM>at all</EM>.<P>If you want me to lead Debian for another year, I will work from day one to
set up mechanisms that ensure more permeability in DPL activities. The goal
will be to allow prospective DPLs to gain some experience on DPL activities,
and to show their potential abilities in that capacity well before the next
DPL elections. Ultimately, I think that is what is needed to guarantee the
long term sustainability of the DPL institution. Some ideas on how this could
be achieved are discussed in Section <A HREF="#sec:governance">2.3.1</A>.</P></LI><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">We have discussed
<A HREF="https://lists.debian.org/debian-vote/2011/03/msg00040.html">in the past</A>
arguments in favor and against extending the 1 year duration of DPL terms. I
have had the opportunity to serve as DPL for 2 years and that has allowed me
to see to the end of tasks that have spanned more than one year (e.g. most of
the legal tasks). But there are also tasks on which I have worked since 2010,
that I have guided up to here, and that are close to completion
(e.g. periodic budget reports, relationships with other important actors of
the Free Software ecosystem, etc.). With your permission, I would love to
conclude my DPL “career” bringing them to completion.</LI></OL><!--TOC section My goals-->
<H2 CLASS="section"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc4">2</A>  My goals</H2><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:goals"></A></P><P>DPL institutional tasks deal with decision-making in situations that are
unknown <EM>a priori</EM>. Hence, I present my goals as follows.
</P><OL CLASS="enumerate"><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">
First I give my <EM>vision</EM> encompassing key themes of Debian
“politics”. I believe that this, in conjunction with my track record as
DPL, might give you an idea of how I can react to unforeseeable scenarios.</LI><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">Then I present the <EM>approach</EM> I intend to apply in carrying on DPL
institutional tasks.</LI><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">Finally I list some specific projects I intend to pursue if reelected
DPL.
</LI></OL><!--TOC subsection Vision-->
<H3 CLASS="subsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc5">2.1</A>  Vision</H3><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:vision"></A></P><!--TOC paragraph The role of Debian-->
<H5 CLASS="paragraph"><!--SEC ANCHOR -->The role of Debian</H5><!--SEC END --><P>
The ecosystem of Free Software is vast and growing. Every active distribution
in there should be well aware of its own purpose and distinguishing traits.
During the past two terms I’ve communicated about the role of Debian observing
that we offer a set of pretty rare, if not unique, features among mainstream
FOSS distributions. Those features consist of a mix of technical and
“political” aspects: (1) a focus on package quality, with no distinction
among first and second class packages; (2) a strong culture of software
freedom, which refuses to offer non-free software by default to users and
distribution developers (as parts of the infrastructure used to make Debian);
(3) independence from commercial interests, with no <EM>single</EM> company or
entity that could claim to babysit Debian; and (4) a decision making model
based on a weighted sum of “do-ocracy” and democracy, which implies that by
doing (rather than talking) everyone has a chance to have an impact on Debian.</P><P>I believe the above traits turn Debian into a rather unique and fundamental
actor of Free Software and I intend to continue to present the Project that
way, both to the Debian community and to external stakeholders. For more
information on this aspect, you might want to check the
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/talks/">dozens talks</A> I’ve given on the subject
as DPL or, for a summary, the blog post
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/blog/posts/2011/01/who_the_bloody_hell_cares_about_Debian/">“Who
the bloody hell cares about Debian”</A>.</P><!--TOC paragraph Contributing to Debian-->
<H5 CLASS="paragraph"><!--SEC ANCHOR -->Contributing to Debian</H5><!--SEC END --><P>
I’ve campaigned in the past on the topic of
<A HREF="$(VOTE)/2010/platforms/zack#htoc5">more gradual and
rewarding access paths</A> to Debian. During the past years, we marked
significant advancements on that topic by first
<A HREF="$(VOTE)/2010/vote_002">welcoming non-packaging
contributors</A> in our Project and then renaming the process to join Debian to
<A HREF="https://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-announce/2011/10/msg00004.html">\
New <EM>Member</EM> process</A>. I’m convinced that in the long run that will
prove to be a more important change than what we realize at present. It has the
potential of turning the monoculture we used to be into the massively varied
culture we <EM>need</EM> to be faithful to our vocation of universality.
Even though technically non-packaging DD have existed before, we are now
communicating clearly that Debian values all kind of contributions equally, and
that we permanently invite all potential contributors to join our Project.
Several applicants have already answered to that invitation.</P><P>More generally, we need to make it easier to contribute to Debian with all kind
of contributions. Talking with potential contributions, I still have the
impression that our ability to retain a potential contributor depends too much
on whether or not she will be lucky enough to talk with the “right person”.
Other projects have gone through similar problems and have implemented working
solutions. For instance many other distributions offer “how to contribute”
documentation on a per-profile basis (see #608400);
<A HREF="http://wiki.documentfoundation.org/Development/Easy_Hacks">other
projects</A> has successfully exploited lists of “easy hacks” as ways to guide
newbies through their processes and cultures. We should learn from our
neighbors, not fear change on the basis that “it has always been this way”,
and check which among now established solutions work for us.</P><!--TOC paragraph Collaborative maintenance and NMUs-->
<H5 CLASS="paragraph"><!--SEC ANCHOR -->Collaborative maintenance and NMUs</H5><!--SEC END --><P>
I’ve been a fan of teams and collaborative maintenance since their introduction
in Debian. I haven’t changed my mind on these matters
<A HREF="$(VOTE)/2010/platforms/zack#htoc5">since my 2010
platforms</A>. In fact, I’ve radicalized my position and I’ve been campaigning
more and more for (properly done!) NMUs, as documented in
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/hacking/debian/rcbw/">the motivations</A> of the
RCBW initiative. I believe that (properly done!) NMUs is the best tool we have
to fight inertia and counter the negative effects of excessive package
ownership. Our
<A HREF="$(DOC)/developers-reference/pkgs.html#nmu">current
guidelines for NMUs</A> are in fact quite liberal and permit to cover up for MIA
or negligent maintainers, provided they are put in the best possible conditions
to catch up with NMU work later on. I’ll keep on advertising for NMU practices
whenever needed.</P><!--TOC paragraph Vocal minorities-->
<H5 CLASS="paragraph"><!--SEC ANCHOR -->Vocal minorities</H5><!--SEC END --><P>
Two years ago I’ve campaigned about polls as a mean to solve issues with
<A HREF="$(VOTE)/2010/platforms/zack#htoc5">vocal minorities</A>
on Debian mailing list. I still believe polls are a potentially useful tool,
but I haven’t seen the need of using them during the past two year. Hopefully
we won’t feel the need of them in the near future either. Rather, several
people—including myself—have often chimed in relevant threads to point out
that non-constructive comments from people who are not in charge of specific
project areas are useless according to our Constitution. We have also amended
our mailing list code of conduct accordingly (see #610262).</P><!--TOC paragraph Face-to-face meetings-->
<H5 CLASS="paragraph"><!--SEC ANCHOR -->Face-to-face meetings</H5><!--SEC END --><P>
I’ve campaigned in the past for
<A HREF="$(VOTE)/2010/platforms/zack#htoc5">face-to-face
meetings</A> and I’ve worked to establish and document a
<A HREF="http://wiki.debian.org/Sprints">sprint process</A> that ensure transparency
on how Debian money are used. I’ve also moved the process to
<A HREF="https://lists.debian.org/debian-sprints/">a public mailing list</A>, allowing
whoever is interested to help out with sprint organization. Finally, I’ve
presented a report of all recent sprints in a
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/talks/2011/201107-dc11-money.pdf">DebConf11
talk</A>. This is a trend we should continue to encourage and increase.</P><!--TOC paragraph Derivatives-->
<H5 CLASS="paragraph"><!--SEC ANCHOR -->Derivatives</H5><!--SEC END --><P>
We have worked quite a bit with derivatives during the past 2 years, with
initiatives like the
<A HREF="http://wiki.debian.org/DerivativesFrontDesk">derivatives front desk</A>, the
<A HREF="http://wiki.debian.org/Derivatives/Census">derivatives census</A>, and
<A HREF="http://dex.alioth.debian.org/">DEX</A>. I’ve took good care of being present
as a Debian representative at several meetings of derivatives distribution.
There, I’ve campaigned for a vision of upstream-downstream relationships which
is no longer composed by only two actors (upstream/downstream), but rather by a
long chain of software vendors where every vendor has: direct users, benefits
from upstreams, and acts as a platform for several downstreams. In order to
pursue the interests of Free Software—for those who, like us, care about
that—every actor should give credit to their upstreams and make efforts to
push patches back to them. In the specific case of Debian we should:
</P><OL CLASS="enumerate"><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">
<EM>be exemplar in our giving back practices</EM>, for example by tracking
publicly our efforts in sending patches upstream;</LI><LI CLASS="li-enumerate"><EM>make as easy as possible to give back to us</EM>, for example by
participating in cross-distribution initiatives and by NMU-ing packages when
important downstream patches lay unattended in the BTS.
</LI></OL><P>
Doing both will strengthen our give back <EM>requests</EM> to derivatives that we
should not stop posing.</P><!--TOC subsection Interaction with the project-->
<H3 CLASS="subsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc6">2.2</A>  Interaction with the project</H3><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:dpl-project"></A></P><!--TOC subsubsection Being present-->
<H4 CLASS="subsubsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc7">2.2.1</A>  Being present</H4><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:presence"></A></P><P>As <A HREF="$(VOTE)/2010/platforms/zack#htoc6">promised</A>, I’ve
done my best to be a present DPL on mailing list discussions, chiming in where
I thought it was needed (to solve a conflict, drive a discussion to its
conclusion, monitor the project agenda, etc). Whether I’ve delivered or not,
and whether you <EM>liked it</EM> or not, is up to you to judge. On my part, I
hereby reiterated my intention to do so for the next term.</P><!--TOC subsubsection Transparency-->
<H4 CLASS="subsubsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc8">2.2.2</A>  Transparency</H4><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:transparency"></A></P><P>I’ve also repeatedly
<A HREF="$(VOTE)/2010/platforms/zack#htoc6">engaged myself</A> to
periodically disclose DPL activities. During the past two terms, I’ve ended up
implementing a specific scheme for doing that, which has worked well for me and
I plan to reiterate. In short, daily bits are taken about my DPL activities and
made available to Debian Developers via a project machine, usually on a weekly
basis. Monthly, those bits are summarized in a “bits from the DPL” mail sent
to <TT>d-d-a</TT>. For formal stuff like delegations or other noteworthy
activities separate mails are sent to <TT>d-d-a</TT> as well.</P><P>Doing the above takes quite some time, which is taken away from other DPL
activities. When faced with the dilemma, I’ve favored ditching some DPL tasks
and communicating or taking notes about the others, instead of the other way
around. I firmly believe the DPL should do so and I intend to keep on doing the
same during the next term.</P><!--TOC subsection Specific plans-->
<H3 CLASS="subsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc9">2.3</A>  Specific plans</H3><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:itches"></A></P><!--TOC subsubsection DPL practicing-->
<H4 CLASS="subsubsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc10">2.3.1</A>  DPL practicing</H4><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:governance"></A></P><P>If elected again, the next term will be my last term as DPL, because I have
different plans for my long term Debian future. Having that in mind, I will
work since the very beginning of the term to ensure a smooth transition to the
next DPL. The DPL is an elective charge so I don’t get to pick a successor
(luckily!). Rather, what I intend to do is work to setup an environment where
prospective candidates can practice with DPL activities. Calling for volunteers
didn’t work in the past, but might work this time thanks to the
certainty—which I’ve just given above—that this will be my last term.</P><P>If that will still not work, I plan to contact people I feel like working with,
and invite them to participate in DPL activities. Either way, I hope to be able
to form a group of people who are motivated enough to, at the same time, help
out with DPL tasks for the next term, and get a glimpse of what the DPL job is
about. Whether it will actually happen or not is not up to me, but to the
actual interest of people to step in and work with me to practice on DPL
tasks. <EM>If</EM> that will work, I intend to hold monthly public IRC meetings
with the people helping out, where outstanding tasks on the DPL agenda can be
reviewed and new one discussed in a more transparent way than by mailing
<TT>leader@d.o</TT>.</P><!--TOC subsubsection Money-->
<H4 CLASS="subsubsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc11">2.3.2</A>  Money</H4><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:money"></A></P><P><I>(This is one of the tasks on which I’ve been working since my first
term, but are still ongoing.)</I></P><P>As I have discussed in a
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/blog/posts/2012/01/debian_donations-fu/">recent
blog post</A>, publishing periodic and comprehensive Debian money reports has
proven to be surprisingly challenging, due to the disperse nature of Debian
finances. I have worked with the Debian auditors to clarify the status of
existing Trusted Organization and set up procedures that work for both the
auditors and the DPL, to track expenses and query the current state of Debian
finances (which is not an entirely trivial exercise due to the perennial
different between pledged and spent money). The auditors have in the meantime
checked in a shared ledger (textual) database a good deal of the money
transactions of the past 2-3 years. We are, in essence, as close to the goal of
sustainable periodic money reporting as we have ever been.</P><P>I will work to complete this, because I don’t think it is acceptable to solicit
donations and not publishing periodic reports about what we do with donated
money.</P><!--TOC subsubsection Delegations and core teams-->
<H4 CLASS="subsubsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc12">2.3.3</A>  Delegations and core teams</H4><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:delegates"></A>
<A NAME="sec:core-teams"></A></P><P>I’ve campaigned in the past about
<A HREF="$(VOTE)/2010/platforms/zack#htoc12">clarifying
delegations</A>. There has been quite some progress on that: all delegations
I’ve made and/or clarified have corresponding pages under
<A HREF="http://wiki.debian.org/Teams/"><TT>http://wiki.debian.org/Teams/</TT></A> that include pointers to the current
delegation text. Some more delegations are still to be clarified and they
should still be documented properly in the
<A HREF="$(INTRO)/organization">organization page</A> on our
website.</P><P>I’ve also campaigned about
<A HREF="$(VOTE)/2010/platforms/zack#htoc13">restaffing core
teams</A> so that at least three members plus assistants are part of each of
them. Work has been done on this front, but this is an always running task on
which I plan to keep on working.</P><!--TOC subsubsection Companies-->
<H4 CLASS="subsubsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc13">2.3.4</A>  Companies</H4><!--SEC END --><P>Last year, I’ve campaigned about the need of allowing companies with an
interest in Debian to
<A HREF="$(VOTE)/2011/platforms/zack#htoc13">flock
together</A> and get in touch with us. Quoting myself from a
<A HREF="http://raphaelhertzog.com/2011/11/22/people-behind-debian-stefano-zacchiroli-debian-project-leader/">recent
interview</A>:
</P><BLOCKQUOTE CLASS="quotation">
<p>
[…] I do realize that for Free Software to succeed companies, employees,
and salaries should all have a role. I admire projects that strike a good
balance between volunteer and paid work. The Linux kernel is emblematic in
that respect: many developers are paid by companies that have a commercial or
strategic interest in Linux. Nevertheless volunteers contributions are
aplenty and the Linux community gives a convincing impression that choices
are driven by the community itself (or by its benevolent dictator) without
money-driven impositions.<P>Such an ecosystem does not exist around Debian. We do have a partner program
that allows for it to happen, but we have very few partners with an interest
in doing distribution development work. […] I’m worried by this state of
affairs, because it de facto means we lag behind in terms of available people
power. In a community of volunteers, that might frustrate people and that is
not good.
</P></BLOCKQUOTE><P>I have worked on that front and as a result we now have a <TT>-companies</TT>
mailing list ready to accept subscriptions from representatives of companies
with a strong strategic interest and commitment to Debian. That is only part of
the picture, though. On the one hand, we need to invite companies to join the
initiative; I will get to that before the end of the present term. On the other
hand, we need to bootstrap activities of this particular “user group” and
listen to their needs, without undermining Debian independence. I intend to
work on that part during the next term.</P><!--TOC subsubsection User surveys-->
<H4 CLASS="subsubsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc14">2.3.5</A>  User surveys</H4><!--SEC END --><P>Last year, I’ve campaigned to establish
<A HREF="$(VOTE)/2011/platforms/zack#htoc14">periodic
user surveys</A> to answer user questions that we are unable to answer
ourselves. Unfortunately, I didn’t get a chance to work on it during the
present term and nobody stepped in to pick up the task. I still consider
periodic user surveys a worthwhile goal and I’ll give it a chance next term.</P><!--TOC subsubsection Communication and publicity-->
<H4 CLASS="subsubsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc15">2.3.6</A>  Communication and publicity</H4><!--SEC END --><P>I am proud of having actively participated to the activities of the Debian
Press and Publicity teams since I became DPL in 2010.</P><P>Thanks to members of both teams, I have the impression we are at an all time
high in our communication about Debian. For instance, after having sent out
more announcement in 2010 than in previous years since quite a while, 2011 has
been even better on that front. We have also kept on using Free Software
friendly social media such as <TT>identi.ca</TT>. I think we should continue
this trend. We still lack an official Debian blog, but work on that front is
progressing these very same days thanks to DSA and members of the Press and
Publicity team, with my participation.</P><P>I intend to remain involved in the publicity team as I’ve been for the past two
terms.</P><!--TOC subsubsection Local teams-->
<H4 CLASS="subsubsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc16">2.3.7</A>  Local teams</H4><!--SEC END --><P><I>(This is another task on which I’ve been working during the last
term, but which is not completed yet.)</I></P><P>Debian lacks a structured network of local teams / Debian user groups. I’ve
come to realize this during the past two terms, as soon as people started
asking me questions like “who should we contact for an event in $city?” or
“do you know about periodic Debian-related meetings in $city we can
attend?”. We have some answers about that, which I have recently summarized in
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/talks/2012/20120205-fosdem.pdf">a panel at FOSDEM
2012</A>, but they are no substitute for a network of local teams.</P><P>Other distributions have established similar networks and their experiences
seem to show that they are useful not only as local contact points for events,
but also as starting circles that help users becoming gradually more and more
involved with the distribution. I think we should consider something similar
for Debian. I’ve mentioned the idea from time to time to the local communities
I’ve visited for talks and generally the feedback has been very positive.</P><!--TOC section Additional info-->
<H2 CLASS="section"><!--SEC ANCHOR -->Additional info</H2><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:extra"></A></P><!--TOC paragraph Time commitment-->
<H5 CLASS="paragraph"><!--SEC ANCHOR -->Time commitment</H5><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:time-commit"></A></P><P>Being DPL is challenging; for it to succeed the job must be taken
seriously. For the duration of the mandate I will keep on hold my other Debian
tasks, as I’ve done for the past two terms: it is an obligation towards former
co-workers and a fair deal to avoid burning out.</P><P>On the same topic and for the sake of clarity: some DPL candidates have in the
past declared their ability to act as DPL full-time. I cannot grant that. What
I offer is my Debian time as a volunteer, to be fully dedicated to DPL tasks.
My work position has changed since the last DPL elections though. Starting
September 2011 <A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/blog/posts/2011/06/new_job/">I
have become</A> a French public servant. I can still enjoy a flexible schedule
that allows me to reorganize part of my duties in case of need. However, I’m
now also more constrained by teaching calendars that wouldn’t always allow me
to, say, take a week off for an overseas Debian-related trip. It will depend on
<EM>when</EM> during the year the need will arise. This hasn’t been a problem for
the past 6 months and I don’t expect it to be one during the next term.</P><P>Like most of us, I’m generally available not only via email, but also on IRC,
phone, etc.</P><!--TOC section Rebuttals-->
<H2 CLASS="section"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc17">A</A>  Rebuttals</H2><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:rebuttals"></A></P><!--TOC subsection Wouter Verhelst-->
<H3 CLASS="subsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc18">A.1</A>  Wouter Verhelst</H3><!--SEC END --><P>One of the main point of Wouter’s platform—at least according to my reading
of it—is the fact that a DPL should formulate a <EM>vision</EM>; he says: “As
the DPL, I think it would be my job to formulate a vision”. I wholeheartedly
agree with that. In fact, this is the reason why I have routinely started my
DPL platforms with my general “political vision” of Debian and its
surroundings. This is also why I have, since the very beginning of my DPL-ship,
distilled a list of reasons why the Debian Project is a fundamental actor of
the Free Software world and went around the world presenting that “vision”. I
therefore consider myself quite attached to that idea.</P><P>But when it comes to explain his own vision of the Debian Project, I find
Wouter’s platform lacking. He mentions that Debian should be a “welcoming
place to work on free software” (which is a desiderata of about all Free
Software projects out there) and that he will “work on the issue” of Debian
having a reputation of being “somewhat oldfashioned and stale”. Those are
legitimate intentions, but I think that a vision for the Project should be much
more articulated than that.</P><P>Another important point of Wouter’s platform is about having a DPL that is more
“leader-y” and push for changes. As part of that, a significant part of the
platform reviews my tenure as DPL—an entirely legitimate things to do, with
an incumbent DPL who is also candidate—focusing on two aspects:
<EM>i</EM>. reluctance to change, and <EM>ii</EM>. administrative tasks and
procedures. Unsurprisingly, I completely disagree with his impression that I
have been reluctant to changes. In fact, I have the converse impression of
having pushed for changes at many levels: including important political,
vision, and cultural changes. But ultimately this is for Project Members to
judge. I have two comments about (<EM>ii</EM>). The first is that administrative
tasks are, like it or not, an important part of the DPL job that should not be
neglected, lest creating disservices to the Project. The second is about
procedures: I have discussed
<A HREF="https://lists.debian.org/debian-vote/2012/03/msg00058.html">elsewhere</A> how
they are means to specific ends, i.e. possible implementations of changes that
one wants to push.</P><!--TOC subsection Gergely Nagy-->
<H3 CLASS="subsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc19">A.2</A>  Gergely Nagy</H3><!--SEC END --><P>I find Gergely platform quite interesting, … and surely not only for the
entertaining style it is written in! To start with, his figurative
representation of running for DPL as walking the plank is quite true and, in my
experience, it also extends faithfully to <EM>being</EM> DPL. From what the
platforms tells, Gergely also seems to have been through a Project history
quite similar to mine, where the inspiration of the community (and DebConf in
particular) has played a very important role.</P><P>I agree with both his assessment of the need of attracting to Debian core teams
“passionate talent from within the project, or from outside”, and with the
proposal of using communication as a mean to achieve that. But that is much
easier said than done. A first problem is that the set of talents we have in
the Project are very diverse: we have very talented hackers <EM>and</EM> very
talented communicators, but the intersection tend to be small. I agree with
Gergely we have improved a lot (and opening up project membership to all kind
of contributions was instrumental to that), but right now we simply cannot
<EM>expect</EM> all of us to be willing, or good, at communicating in a way that
will attract contributors. What we have to do is rather set
<A HREF="https://lists.debian.org/debian-vote/2012/03/msg00058.html">incentives</A>
that encourage communication to happen, and I am a bit disappointed by the lack
of examples of such incentives in Gergely’s platform. I suspect he wants to
lead by example on that, which is great. But according to my experience—of
someone who has been “chasing” several teams several times to periodically
communicate about <TT>$this</TT> and <TT>$that</TT>—such an approach does
not scale.</P><P>Regarding recruitment, Gergely says that “our attempts at recruitment are - I
believe - lacking”. I agree, but only because we can always do better. For one
thing, we are doing good at attracting developers from derivative
distributions. Presenting a view of upstream-downstream relationships that
encourages giving back and contributing “as much upstream as possible” seems
to be working (and in fact, attracting developers was one of my motivating
reasons to start doing so). Similarly, I miss in Gergely’s platform mention of
other important vehicles for attracting and retaining contributors, like our
website, documentation, and ongoing <TT>-publicity</TT> activities.
</P><!--CUT END -->
<!--HTMLFOOT-->
<!--ENDHTML-->
<!--FOOTER-->
<HR><BLOCKQUOTE CLASS="quote"><p><EM>This document was translated from L<sup>A</sup>T<sub>E</sub>X by
</EM><A HREF="http://hevea.inria.fr/index.html"><EM>H</EM><EM><sup class=mini>E</sup></EM><EM>V</EM><EM><sup class="mini">E</sup></EM><EM>A</EM></A><EM>.</EM></p></BLOCKQUOTE>
