<define-tag pagetitle>General Resolution: Project membership procedures</define-tag>
<define-tag status>F</define-tag>
# meanings of the <status> tag:
# P: proposed
# D: discussed
# V: voted on
# F: finished
# O: other (or just write anything else)

#use wml::debian::template title="<pagetitle>" BARETITLE="true" NOHEADER="true"
#use wml::debian::toc
#use wml::debian::votebar


    <h1><pagetitle></h1>
    <toc-display />



# The Tags beginning with v are will become H3 headings and are defined in 
# english/template/debian/votebar.wml
# all possible Tags:

# vdate, vtimeline, vnominations, vdebate, vplatforms, 
# Proposers
#          vproposer,  vproposera, vproposerb, vproposerc, vproposerd,
#          vproposere, vproposerf
# Seconds
#          vseconds,   vsecondsa, vsecondsb, vsecondsc, vsecondsd, vsecondse, 
#          vsecondsf,  vopposition
# vtext, vtextb, vtextc, vtextd, vtexte, vtextf
# vchoices
# vamendments, vamendmentproposer, vamendmentseconds, vamendmenttext
# vproceedings, vmajorityreq, vstatistics, vquorum, vmindiscuss, 
# vballot, vforum, voutcome


    <vtimeline />
    <table class="vote">
      <tr>
        <th>Proposal and amendment</th>
        <td>Friday, 24th October, 2008</td>
		<td>Wednesday, 29th October, 2008</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <th>Discussion Period:</th>
		<td>Wednesday, 29th October, 2008</td>
        <td><em>Wednesday, 26th November, 2008</em></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <th>Voting Period</th>
        <td>00:00:01 UTC on Monday, 8th Dec, 2008</td>
        <td>23:59:59 UTC on Sunday, 14th Dec, 2008</td>
      </tr>
    </table>

    <vproposer />
    <p>Charles Plessy
      [<a href="mailto:plessy@debian.org">plessy@debian.org</a>]
      [<a href='http://lists.debian.org/debian-vote/2008/10/msg00126.html'>20081025011055.GA10094@kunpuu.plessy.org</a>]
	<br />
	<em>Please note</em>, the finalised text of the proposal is an accepted amendment from Peter Palfrader [<a href="mailto:weasel@debian.org">weasel@debian.org</a>]. See [<a href='http://lists.debian.org/debian-vote/2008/10/msg00266.html'>20081029200151.GA29944@intrepid.palfrader.org</a>] and 
      [<a href='http://lists.debian.org/debian-vote/2008/10/msg00277.html'>20081030001856.GA5202@plessy.org</a>]
    </p>

    <vseconds />
    <ol>
      <li>MJ Ray [<a href="mailto:mjr@debian.org">mjr@debian.org</a>]</li>
      <li>Robert Millan [<a href="mailto:rmh@debian.org">rmh@debian.org</a>]</li>
      <li>Bas Zoetekouw [<a href="mailto:bas@debian.org">bas@debian.org</a>]</li>
      <li>Frans Pop [<a href="mailto:fjp@debian.org">fjp@debian.org</a>]</li>
      <li>Amaya Rodrigo Sastre [<a href="mailto:amaya@debian.org">amaya@debian.org</a>]</li>
      <li>Lucas Nussbaum [<a href="mailto:lucas@debian.org">lucas@debian.org</a>]</li>
      <li>Bastian Blank [<a href="mailto:waldi@debian.org">waldi@debian.org</a>]</li>
      <li>Jurij Smakov [<a href="mailto:jurij@debian.org">jurij@debian.org</a>]</li>
      <li>Rémi Vanicat [<a href="mailto:vanicat@debian.org">vanicat@debian.org</a>]</li>
      <li>Philipp Kern [<a href="mailto:pkern@debian.org">pkern@debian.org</a>]</li>
      <li>Luca Filipozzi [<a href="mailto:lfilipoz@debian.org">lfilipoz@debian.org</a>]</li>
      <li>Pierre Habouzit [<a href="mailto:madcoder@debian.org">madcoder@debian.org</a>]</li>
      <li>Colin Tuckley [<a href="mailto:colint@debian.org">colint@debian.org</a>]</li>
      <li>Marc 'HE' Brockschmidt [<a href="mailto:he@debian.org">he@debian.org</a>]</li>
      <li>Raphaël Hertzog [<a href="mailto:hertzog@debian.org">hertzog@debian.org</a>]</li>
      <li>Patrick Schoenfeld [<a href="mailto:schoenfeld@debian.org">schoenfeld@debian.org</a>]</li>
      <li>Cyril Brulebois [<a href="mailto:kibi@debian.org">kibi@debian.org</a>]</li>
      <li>Philipp Kern [<a href="mailto:pkern@debian.org">pkern@debian.org</a>]</li>
      <li>Alexander Schmehl [<a href="mailto:tolimar@debian.org">tolimar@debian.org</a>]</li>
      <li>Nico Golde [<a href="mailto:nion@debian.org">nion@debian.org</a>]</li>
      <li>Andreas Barth [<a href="mailto:aba@debian.org">aba@debian.org</a>]</li>
    </ol>
    <vtext />
    <p>The actual text of the resolution is as follows. Please note
      that this does not include preludes, prologues, any preambles to
      the resolution, post-ambles to the resolution, abstracts,
      fore-words, after-words, rationales, supporting documents,
      opinion polls, arguments for and against, and any of the other
      important material you will find on the mailing list
      archives. Please read the debian-vote mailing list archives for
      details.
    </p>
	<blockquote>
	<h3>Choice 2: Invite the DAM to further discuss until vote or consensus, leading
	to a new proposal.</h3>
	<p>The Debian Project recognizes that many contributors to the project are not working withing established frameworks of Debian and thus are not provided by the project with as much help as might be possible, useful or required, nor opportunities to join the project.</p>
	<p>We thank Jörg Jaspert for exploring ideas on how to involve contributors more closely with and within the project so that they can get both recognition and the necessary tools to do their work.
	</p>
	<p>We realize that the proposal posted to the debian-devel-announce mailinglist is not yet finalized and may not have the support of a large part of our community. We invite the DAM and all the contributors to further develop their ideas in close coordination with other members of the project, and to present a new and improved proposal on the project's mailinglists in the future.
	</p>
	<p>Significant changes should only be implemented after consensus within the project at large has been reached, or when decided by a general resolution.
	</p>
	</blockquote>
	<hr />

	<vamendmentproposera />
	<p>Lucas Nussbaum
	  [<a href='mailto:lucas@debian.org'>lucas@debian.org</a>]
	  [<a href='http://lists.debian.org/debian-vote/2008/11/msg00006.html'>&lt;20081102142205.GA16498@xanadu.blop.info&gt;</a>]
	</p>

	<vamendmentsecondsa />
	<ol>
	<li>Damyan Ivanov
	  [<a href='mailto:dmn@debian.org'>dmn@debian.org</a>]
	</li>
	<li>Matthew Johnson
	  [<a href='mailto:mjj29@debian.org'>mjj29@debian.org</a>]
	</li>
	<li>Stefano Zacchiroli
	  [<a href='mailto:zack@debian.org'>zack@debian.org</a>]
	</li>
	<li>Margarita Manterola
	  [<a href='mailto:marga@debian.org'>marga@debian.org</a>]
	</li>
	<li>Raphaël Hertzog
	  [<a href='mailto:hertzog@debian.org'>hertzog@debian.org</a>]
	</li>
	</ol>

	<vamendmenttexta />
	<blockquote>
	<h3>Choice 1: Ask the DAMs to postpone the changes until vote or consensus.</h3>
	<p>The Debian Project, by way of a general resolution of its developers,
	asks the Debian Account Managers to postpone the implementation of the
	changes described on the debian-devel-announce mailing list (Message-id:
	&lt;<a
	href='http://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-announce/2008/10/msg00005.html'>878wsgmi1j.fsf@vorlon.ganneff.de</a>&gt;)
	about "Developer Status", until there is consensus on a proposal, or a vote
	to define the proposal that should be implemented.
	</p>
	</blockquote>
	<hr />

	<vamendmentproposerb />
	<p>Lucas Nussbaum
	  [<a href='mailto:lucas@debian.org'>lucas@debian.org</a>]
	  [<a href='http://lists.debian.org/debian-vote/2008/11/msg00006.html'>&lt;20081102142205.GA16498@xanadu.blop.info&gt;</a>]
	</p>

	<vamendmentsecondsb />
	<ol>
	<li>Damyan Ivanov
	  [<a href='mailto:dmn@debian.org'>dmn@debian.org</a>]
	</li>
	<li>Matthew Johnson
	  [<a href='mailto:mjj29@debian.org'>mjj29@debian.org</a>]
	</li>
	<li>Stefano Zacchiroli
	  [<a href='mailto:zack@debian.org'>zack@debian.org</a>]
	</li>
	<li>Margarita Manterola
	  [<a href='mailto:marga@debian.org'>marga@debian.org</a>]
	</li>
	<li>Raphaël Hertzog
	  [<a href='mailto:hertzog@debian.org'>hertzog@debian.org</a>]
	</li>
	</ol>

	<vamendmenttextb />
	<blockquote>
	<h3>Choice 3: Ask the DAMs to implement the changes.</h3>
	<p>
	The Debian Project, by way of a general resolution of its developers, asks
	the Debian Account Managers to start the implementation of the changes
	described on the debian-devel-announce mailing list (Message-id: &lt;<a
	href='http://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-announce/2008/10/msg00005.html'>878wsgmi1j.fsf@vorlon.ganneff.de</a>&gt;)
	about "Developer Status".
	</p>
	</blockquote>
	<hr />

    <vquorum />
     <p>
        With the current list of <a href="vote_002_quorum.log">voting
          developers</a>, we have:
     </p>
    <pre>
#include 'vote_002_quorum.txt'
    </pre>
#include 'vote_002_quorum.src'

    <vstatistics />
    <p>
      For this GR, as always 
      <a href="suppl_002_stats">statistics</a>
      shall be gathered about ballots received and acknowledgements
      sent periodically during the voting period.  Additionally, the
      list of
      <a href="vote_002_voters.txt">voters</a>
      would be made publicly available. Also, the
      <a href="vote_002_tally.txt">tally sheet</a>
      may also be viewed after to voting is done (Note that
      while the vote is in progress it is a dummy tally sheet).
    </p>

    <vmajorityreq />
    <p>
      All the amendments need simple majority
    </p>
#include 'vote_002_majority.src'

    <voutcome />
#include 'vote_002_results.src'


    <hrline />
      <address>
        <a href="mailto:neilm@debian.org">Neil McGovern</a>
      </address>

