#use wml::debian::template title="Platform for Stefano Zacchiroli" BARETITLE="true" NOHEADER="true"
#include "$(ENGLISHDIR)/vote/style.inc"

{#style#:
<STYLE type="text/css">
.li-itemize{margin:1ex 0ex;}
.li-enumerate{margin:1ex 0ex;}
.dd-description{margin:0ex 0ex 1ex 4ex;}
.dt-description{margin:0ex;}
.toc{list-style:none;}
.thefootnotes{text-align:left;margin:0ex;}
.dt-thefootnotes{margin:0em;}
.dd-thefootnotes{margin:0em 0em 0em 2em;}
.footnoterule{margin:1em auto 1em 0px;width:50%;}
.caption{padding-left:2ex; padding-right:2ex; margin-left:auto; margin-right:auto}
.title{margin:2ex auto;text-align:center}
.center{text-align:center;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;}
.flushleft{text-align:left;margin-left:0ex;margin-right:auto;}
.flushright{text-align:right;margin-left:auto;margin-right:0ex;}
DIV TABLE{margin-left:inherit;margin-right:inherit;}
PRE{text-align:left;margin-left:0ex;margin-right:auto;}
BLOCKQUOTE{margin-left:4ex;margin-right:4ex;text-align:left;}
TD P{margin:0px;}
.boxed{border:1px solid black}
.textboxed{border:1px solid black}
.vbar{border:none;width:2px;background-color:black;}
.hbar{border:none;height:2px;width:100%;background-color:black;}
.hfill{border:none;height:1px;width:200%;background-color:black;}
.vdisplay{border-collapse:separate;border-spacing:2px;width:auto; empty-cells:show; border:2px solid red;}
.vdcell{white-space:nowrap;padding:0px;width:auto; border:2px solid green;}
.display{border-collapse:separate;border-spacing:2px;width:auto; border:none;}
.dcell{white-space:nowrap;padding:0px;width:auto; border:none;}
.dcenter{margin:0ex auto;}
.vdcenter{border:solid #FF8000 2px; margin:0ex auto;}
.minipage{text-align:left; margin-left:0em; margin-right:auto;}
.marginpar{border:solid thin black; width:20%; text-align:left;}
.marginparleft{float:left; margin-left:0ex; margin-right:1ex;}
.marginparright{float:right; margin-left:1ex; margin-right:0ex;}
.theorem{text-align:left;margin:1ex auto 1ex 0ex;}
.part{margin:2ex auto;text-align:center}
.rfloat{float:right;}
body{font-family: sans-serif;
font-size: medium;
}
h1, h2, h3, h4{font-weight: normal;
}
h1{font-size: 140%;}
h2{font-size: 130%;
border-bottom: solid 1pt;
}
h3{font-size: 115%;}
h4{font-size: 105%;}
.paragraph{font-size: 105%;
font-weight: normal;
/* text-decoration: underline; */
}
.alphaenum ol{list-style-type: lower-alpha;
}
.mantra{border: solid;
border-width: 1px;
border-color: #aaa;
background: #eee;
margin: 2pt;
margin-left: 8%;
margin-right: 8%;
padding: 2pt;
}
.summary{border: solid;
border-width: 1px;
border-color: #aaa;
background: #eee;
margin: 2pt;
padding: 2pt;
}
a{text-decoration: none;}
a:hover{text-decoration: underline;}
.floatright{float: right;
}
</STYLE>
:##}

<!--HEVEA command line is: /usr/bin/hevea -fix platform.tex -->
<!--CUT DEF section 1 --><TABLE CLASS="title"><TR><TD><H1 CLASS="titlemain">DPL platform</H1><H3 CLASS="titlerest">Stefano Zacchiroli<BR>
 <A HREF="mailto:zack@debian.org"><TT>zack@debian.org</TT></A><BR>
 <A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack"><TT>http://upsilon.cc/~zack</TT></A></H3><H3 CLASS="titlerest">March 12, 2010</H3></TD></TR>
</TABLE><DIV CLASS="flushright">
<FONT SIZE=1>Version: </FONT><FONT SIZE=1><TT>2.1</TT></FONT><FONT SIZE=1><BR>
 Other formats:
</FONT><A HREF="http://www.upsilon.cc/~zack/hacking/debian/dpl-2010/platform.html"><FONT SIZE=1>.html</FONT></A><FONT SIZE=1>,
</FONT><A HREF="http://www.upsilon.cc/~zack/hacking/debian/dpl-2010/platform.pdf"><FONT SIZE=1>.pdf</FONT></A><FONT SIZE=1>.<BR>
 More info </FONT><A HREF="http://www.upsilon.cc/~zack/hacking/debian/dpl-2010/"><FONT SIZE=1>on my
homepage</FONT></A><FONT SIZE=1>.
</FONT></DIV><!--TOC section Executive summary-->
<H2 CLASS="section"><!--SEC ANCHOR -->Executive summary</H2><!--SEC END --><P>Hi, I'm <A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack">Stefano Zacchiroli</A>--mostly
known as <EM>Zack</EM>--and I'm running for DPL.
</P><DIV CLASS="summary">
The <B>main points</B> of my platform are as follows:
<UL CLASS="itemize"><LI CLASS="li-itemize"> <I>I intend to be a </I><I><EM>present</EM></I><I> DPL, both in
discussions and as the responsible for the project agenda.</I></LI><LI CLASS="li-itemize"><I>I will provide a stream of DPL activity news, to be
frozen and posted </I><I><EM>monthly</EM></I><I> to </I><I><TT>d-d-a</TT></I><I>.</I></LI><LI CLASS="li-itemize"><I>I will apply mechanisms that make
</I><I><EM>consensus</EM></I><I> emerge when it exists.</I></LI><LI CLASS="li-itemize"><I>I will push for more </I><I><EM>gradual</EM></I><I> and
</I><I><EM>rewarding</EM></I><I> access paths to Debian.</I></LI><LI CLASS="li-itemize"><I>I will fight strong package ownership </I><I><EM>when it
conflicts with quality</EM></I><I>.</I></LI><LI CLASS="li-itemize"><I>I will do my best to support, with money and other
resources, contributors meetings.</I></LI></UL></DIV><P>The remainder of the platform provides background information about me
(Section <A HREF="#sec:intro">1</A>), describes the above points in more detail
(Section <A HREF="#sec:goals">2</A>), and highlights more specific plans for my term
(Section <A HREF="#sec:itches">2.3</A>). Rebuttals can be found in
Appendix <A HREF="#sec:rebuttals">A</A>. If you have read my 2009 platform, you might want
to have a look at the changelog (Appendix <A HREF="#sec:changelog">B</A>).</P><!--TOC section Introduction-->
<H2 CLASS="section"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc1">1</A>  Introduction</H2><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:intro"></A></P><!--TOC subsection Who am I-->
<H3 CLASS="subsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc2">1.1</A>  Who am I</H3><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:aboutme"></A></P><P>I became a Debian Developer (DD) in March 2001, shortly after the NM process
was introduced. My Debian involvement has been through two distinct
phases. Initially I only cared about my packages, ignoring the community: no
IRC, no <TT>-devel</TT> subscription, etc. Then at LinuxTag 2004 I discovered
Debian as a <EM>community</EM> and got fascinated by it, gradually increasing my
involvement in the project. My most noteworthy activities during all these
years have been:
</P><DL CLASS="description"><DT CLASS="dt-description">
<B>PTS</B></DT><DD CLASS="dd-description"> I've been co-maintaining the
<A HREF="http://packages.qa.debian.org">Package Tracking System (PTS)</A> for the
past 4-5 years, contributing day to day maintenance as well as
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/blog/posts/2008/11/PTS_SOAP_interface/">more</A>
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/blog/posts/2008/08/improved_integration_among_PTS_and_Lintian/">significant</A>
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/blog/posts/2008/01/pts_dehs_integration/">changes</A>;
details are available <A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/tags/pts/">on my
blog</A>. (My initial interest in the PTS came from the desire to
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/blog/posts/2006/09/xs-x-vcs-XXX/">make</A> the
<TT>Vcs-*</TT> fields
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/blog/posts/2006/10/xs-vcs-XXX_almost_there/">popular</A>,
which has eventually led me to write
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/blog/posts/2007/08/debcheckout/"><TT>debcheckout</TT></A>.)</DD><DT CLASS="dt-description"><B>QA</B></DT><DD CLASS="dd-description"> more generally, I'm a long time member of the
<A HREF="http://qa.debian.org/">Quality Assurance</A> team: I enjoy thinking of the
project as a whole and looking for new solutions
(e.g. <A HREF="http://wiki.debian.org/UltimateDebianDatabase">UDD</A>,
<A HREF="http://lists.debian.org/debian-project/2009/07/msg00067.html">DD
expiry/WAT</A>, etc.) to persisting problems.</DD><DT CLASS="dt-description"><B>OCaml</B></DT><DD CLASS="dd-description"> Proper support for the <A HREF="http://caml.inria.fr">OCaml</A>
language was my motivation to join the project. I've contributed forming the
<A HREF="http://wiki.debian.org/Teams/OCamlTaskForce">Debian OCaml Task
Force</A> where I've ranged from the newbie, to leading activities. The team
currently takes care of about
<A HREF="http://pkg-ocaml-maint.alioth.debian.org/debian-ocaml-status.html">150
source packages</A> with
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/research/publications/jfla10-dh-ocaml.pdf">insanely
intricate inter-dependencies</A>, and complex
<A HREF="http://glondu.net/debian/ocaml_transition_monitor.html">transition</A>
needs.</DD><DT CLASS="dt-description"><B>RCBW</B></DT><DD CLASS="dd-description"> Since September 2009, I've been contributing to fix one RC bug per
day by starting the <EM>Release Critical Bugs of the Week</EM> initiative; see
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/hacking/debian/rcbw/">the RCBW page</A> for
motivations and details.</DD><DT CLASS="dt-description"><B>AM</B></DT><DD CLASS="dd-description"> I've joined the <A HREF="https://nm.debian.org/whoisam.php">New
Maintainer Committee</A> in 2009, becoming an Application Manager. I've been
processing 4 new maintainers, 2 of which have become Debian Developers in the
meantime.</DD><DT CLASS="dt-description"><B>Packaging</B></DT><DD CLASS="dd-description"> I also maintain
<A HREF="http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=zack@debian.org">some
packages</A>. Beside OCaml-related packages, I'm proud of various
contributions to
<A HREF="http://packages.debian.org/sid/devscripts"><TT>devscripts</TT></A>,
<A HREF="http://packages.debian.org/sid/vim"><TT>vim</TT></A>,
<A HREF="http://packages.debian.org/sid/python-debian"><TT>python-debian</TT></A>,
and
<A HREF="http://packages.debian.org/sid/python-turbogears2"><TT>turbogears2</TT></A>.</DD></DL><P>Believing in the community as the real strength of Debian, I'm a regular
attendee of <A HREF="http://www.debconf.org/">DebConf</A> and, time permitting, of
any other face to face meetings like
<A HREF="http://wiki.debian.org/BSP2010/Moenchengladbach">BSPs</A> and
<A HREF="http://wiki.debian.org/DebianQAExtremadura2008?action=fullsearch&context=180&value=debian+extremadura&titlesearch=Titles">Extremadura
sessions</A>.</P><P>In real life, I'm <A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/research/">a computer science
researcher</A>, currently working as a post-doc in the
<A HREF="http://www.pps.jussieu.fr">PPS</A> laboratory,
<A HREF="http://www.univ-paris-diderot.fr">University Paris Diderot</A>. The
laboratory is somewhat of a Debian Developer nest, where coffee breaks
frequently turn into exciting Debian discussions. I mainly work on the
<A HREF="http://www.mancoosi.org">Mancoosi</A> project, where we apply formal
methods to the study of FOSS distributions; the project regularly
contributes back tools to the community such as
<A HREF="http://packages.debian.org/sid/edos-debcheck"><TT>edos-debcheck</TT></A>,
<A HREF="http://edos.debian.net"><TT>edos.debian.net</TT></A>, and other QA services
used daily by Debian and other distros.</P><!--TOC subsection Why I am running for DPL-->
<H3 CLASS="subsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc3">1.2</A>  Why I am running for DPL</H3><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:whyrunning"></A></P><P>Being the DPL is about two distinct aspects: the institutional role and some
extra goals the prospective DPL wants to pursue during the term. This
distinction matters. The institutional role is
<A HREF="http://www.debian.org/devel/constitution#5">described in our
constitution</A> and is about three tasks: ordinary and extraordinary decision
making, public relations with the outside world, and leading discussions inside
the project.</P><P>My view of why we need a DPL builds on the observation that we operate as a
do-ocracy: anyone willing to do things can decide what and how they are done,
and no one can be forced to do anything. Given our size, we have the tendency
of turning into an <EM>imperfect</EM> do-ocracy:
</P><DIV CLASS="alphaenum">
<OL CLASS="enumerate" type=1><LI CLASS="li-enumerate"> 
access restrictions get added to inhibit people doing alleged dangerous
actions;
</LI><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">non-exciting tasks can rot because nobody is motivated enough to take
care of them;
</LI><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">those in acquired positions may neglect their duties and lower the
quality of the service they offer, because they do not admit they are no
longer fit for the task.
</LI></OL>
</DIV><P>
The DPL has the duty, for a limited amount of time, to mitigate the
imperfections of our do-ocracy:
</P><DIV CLASS="alphaenum">
<OL CLASS="enumerate" type=1><LI CLASS="li-enumerate"> 
spot overly constraining access restrictions which inhibit capable people
to work, inducing inefficiencies and frustration;
</LI><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">find people willing to do non-exciting tasks for the project's global
good (in exchange of proper credit);
</LI><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">(re)assign people to key positions to improve service quality inside and
outside the project.
</LI></OL>
</DIV><P>
The reward is the occasion to push for project-wide improvements by the only
virtue of occupying the DPL position.</P><P>I want to challenge myself to be a transparent and present DPL, and to improve
the mechanisms of our project. That is why I'm running for DPL.</P><!--TOC section My goals-->
<H2 CLASS="section"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc4">2</A>  My goals</H2><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:goals"></A></P><P>DPL institutional tasks deal with decision-making in situations that are, in
general, unknown <EM>a priori</EM>. Hence, I present my goals as follows.
</P><OL CLASS="enumerate" type=1><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">
First I give my <EM>vision</EM> encompassing key themes of Debian
"politics". This, I believe, is the only way to give an idea of how I can
react to unforeseeable scenarios.</LI><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">Then I present the <EM>approach</EM> I intend to apply in carrying on DPL
institutional tasks.</LI><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">Finally I list some specific projects I intend to pursue if elected DPL.
</LI></OL><!--TOC subsection Vision-->
<H3 CLASS="subsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc5">2.1</A>  Vision</H3><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:vision"></A></P><!--TOC paragraph Non-DD contributors-->
<H5 CLASS="paragraph"><!--SEC ANCHOR -->Non-DD contributors</H5><!--SEC END --><P>
The introduction of <A HREF="http://wiki.debian.org/DebianMaintainer">DMs</A> (Debian
Maintainers) has been a fortunate event for Debian. Some people argue that it
has opened up our archive to packages of sub-standard quality. That might be
true, but we also have (plenty of) sub-standard packages maintained by
full-fledged maintainers who have lost their interest in Debian. The solution
to both is <EM>more QA</EM>.</P><P>Through the DM process, many enthusiastic people have found their way into
Debian, increasing our work force. In addition, the DM process induces a
<EM>more controlled process</EM> to become a full-fledged DD, with greater
insurance of serious commitment to Debian, and experience levels. All in all,
the DM process is a more fine-grained access path to Debian than what we had
before it, which enables us to give back to our contributors <EM>gradually</EM>
through recognition.</P><P>We need to generalize the lessons learned from the DM process. We have a lot of
potential valuable contributors out there. They just need better documentation
about <EM>how</EM> to join. They simply demand something in exchange, to be proud
of, that acknowledges their efforts. I do not have preconceptions on the
different ways of achieving this (e.g. ACLs vs linearly increasing privileges),
but we need to go in that direction. In doing so, we should also relax our
implicit assumptions that <EM>only</EM> technical abilities matter in Debian. The
"best operating system" is <EM>mainly</EM>, not only, made of software; it is
also made of translations, graphics, musics, etc.</P><DIV CLASS="mantra">
<DIV CLASS="center"><I>I will push for more </I><I><EM>gradual</EM></I><I> and
</I><I><EM>rewarding</EM></I><I> access paths to Debian.</I></DIV>
</DIV><!--TOC paragraph Collaborative maintenance-->
<H5 CLASS="paragraph"><!--SEC ANCHOR -->Collaborative maintenance</H5><!--SEC END --><P>
The introduction of the <TT>Uploaders:</TT> field has been another fortunate
development in Debian. While it can, in principle, form teams of people with no
clear responsibility for specific tasks, on average it works very well. It
creates efficient technical spaces for collaboration on specific topics, and it
also scales through (re)creating organizational structures with specific
position and task-assignments.</P><P>Collaborative maintenance should not be mandatory (we do have several very
efficient one-man-band developers), but should be our default. Packaging
newbies should start in collaborative maintenance teams and gain experience
there. Team member feedback is useful to take some weight off the shoulders of
the NM process. Similarly, we should not accept one-man-band maintenance when
it comes with de facto unmaintained packages (to be identified with suitable QA
metrics, e.g. cross-checking MIA, WAT, bapase, etc.). In those cases, we should
suggest--or even force if needed--collaborative maintenance. It can provide a
more acceptable exit strategy than public, yet useless, shaming.</P><DIV CLASS="mantra">
<DIV CLASS="center"><I>I will fight strong package ownership </I><I><EM>when it
conflicts with quality</EM></I><I>.</I></DIV>
</DIV><!--TOC paragraph Vocal minorities-->
<H5 CLASS="paragraph"><!--SEC ANCHOR -->Vocal minorities</H5><!--SEC END --><P>
Our mailing lists have substantially improved over the last years. Every now
and then though, they get polluted by (apparently) very vocal minorities
capable of polarizing discussions, which is neither productive, nor fun. Given
how we are attached to our community, we sometime take part in such
discussions, inevitably burning out (VAC messages due to this are way too
frequent). My take:
</P><BLOCKQUOTE CLASS="quote"> <I>Freedom of speech: good.<BR>
 Vocal minorities holding hostage the silent majorities: bad.</I></BLOCKQUOTE><P>While we should consider--and have actually applied in the past--moderation
measures to counter repeated community disrupting behaviors, we cannot take the
risk of applying them only on the <EM>assumption</EM> that the posters actually
are a vocal minority. Even though there are no optimal solutions for this kind
of problems, technical devices can help. One such device I want to put into use
are <A HREF="http://master.debian.org/~jeroen/polls/">polls</A>, as proposed by
others years ago. The intention is to enable every DD to start mail-based,
authenticated polls <EM>à la</EM> <TT>devotee</TT>.</P><P>Polls can give a reasonable idea where the community stands, without having to
engage the whole GR (General Resolution) machinery. A poll can either make it
clear to participants in discussions (or flame fests) that they are in
disagreement with the rest of the project and better stop beating the dying
horse, or indicate that they are on the right path.</P><DIV CLASS="mantra">
<DIV CLASS="center"><I>I will apply mechanisms that make
</I><I><EM>consensus</EM></I><I> emerge when it exists.</I></DIV>
</DIV><!--TOC paragraph Face-to-face meetings-->
<H5 CLASS="paragraph"><!--SEC ANCHOR -->Face-to-face meetings</H5><!--SEC END --><P>
Meetings are essential to improve the quality of collaboration within the
project, no matter how good we are in communicating digitally. Get together
face to face, hack for hours, do stuff together, and get back home. The day
after, your remote collaboration will be better.</P><P>Helping the organization of meetings is one of the best way to use Debian money
and other resources, such as specifically appointed management people. Luckily
we do have <A HREF="http://www.debconf.org">DebConf</A>, organized by a very
efficient team. Nevertheless DebConf should not be the only get-together, and
we should push more for local meetings, employing our resources for that. I see
as perfectly reasonable supporting financially the trips of active contributors
when that will make possible joining others to work on specific topics.</P><P>A simple metric for deciding when to do that and when not, beside the required
amount of money, can be the number <I>x</I> of other developers asking for that. If
and <EM>when</EM> money will become an issue, I do not see any showstopper in
organizing specific sponsoring campaigns.</P><DIV CLASS="mantra">
<DIV CLASS="center"><I>I will do my best to support, with money and other
resources, contributors meetings.</I></DIV>
</DIV><!--TOC paragraph Derivatives-->
<H5 CLASS="paragraph"><!--SEC ANCHOR -->Derivatives</H5><!--SEC END --><P>
We are part of the FOSS ecosystem, in which patches flow both downstream and
upstream. We <A HREF="http://www.debian.org/social_contract">have promised</A> to
give back to the free software community, yet sometimes we fail to do
so. Initiatives like the <A HREF="http://patch-tracker.debian.org">patch tracker</A>
are a way to ensure that all our changes are visible both to downstream and
upstream.</P><P>Our derived distributions (AKA <EM>derivatives</EM>) have us as theirs upstream,
and are in a similar situation. We cannot <EM>force</EM> them to give back to us,
because our promises are not necessarily theirs, still we should:
</P><OL CLASS="enumerate" type=1><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">
<EM>be exemplar in our giving back practices</EM>, for example by tracking
publicly our efforts in sending patches upstream;</LI><LI CLASS="li-enumerate"><EM>make as easy as possible to give back to us</EM>, for example by
participating in cross-distribution initiatives and by NMU-ing packages when
important downstream patches lay unattended in the BTS.
</LI></OL><P>
Doing both will strengthen our give back <EM>requests</EM> to derivatives that we
should not stop posing.</P><P>In particular, we should not ignore the fact that <B>Ubuntu</B> is the most
popular among our derivatives and seems to have a larger community than
ours. (i) <EM>Technically</EM>, we should exploit that to benefit our users, by
integrating good changes and ditching the rest. To that end I will welcome
technical mechanisms that enable DDs to better interact with the Ubuntu
community (bug, patches, ...) about their packages. (ii) <EM>Politically</EM>,
we have the asset that Ubuntu releases contain about 70% of unmodified Debian
packages.<SUP><A NAME="text1" HREF="#note1">1</A></SUP> That asset should be used to communicate
more incisively our desire that Ubuntu behaves as a proper FOSS downstream:
giving credit and contributing back. (iii) Finally we should <EM>communicate</EM>
why we are better (see Section <A HREF="#sec:website">2.3.1</A>) and don't forget that we
<EM>are</EM> better.</P><!--TOC subsection Interaction with the project-->
<H3 CLASS="subsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc6">2.2</A>  Interaction with the project</H3><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:dpl-project"></A></P><!--TOC subsubsection Being present-->
<H4 CLASS="subsubsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc7">2.2.1</A>  Being present</H4><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:presence"></A></P><P>I have often suffered from a perceived DPL "absence". Maybe it was just me
not being pro-active enough to ping the DPL on IRC or email and ask, but I
consider it a DPL duty to communicate his or her presence. That comes in two
forms: one is to <B>lead discussions</B> among developers, as
<A HREF="http://www.debian.org/devel/constitution#5">prescribed in the
constitution</A>, something I have rarely seen. While we do not want that by
default (no need for a "post-in-every-thread" DPL), I will try to be present
in "hot" discussions (vague on purpose) which concern the organization and
the big picture of the project. I will also encourage seeking the DPL opinion
on specific topics, by pinging me explicitly.</P><P>The DPL opinion can also be a reasonable first attempt to solve a conflict; if
it fails, we do have other mechanisms to settle it. In this respect, I believe
my personal qualities can be useful for the project: I am thoughtful, listen to
others, and open to be convinced by good arguments.</P><P>The second expression of presence that should be expected from the DPL is the
management of the <B>project agenda</B>, as well as the communication of
<B>our vision</B>. Managing the agenda means having a road map of topics the
project should <EM>consider</EM> within some time frame. The
<A HREF="http://wiki.debian.org/DiscussionsAfterLenny">DiscussionsAfterLenny</A>
page--and how we did(n't) use it--is an example of such need. The DPL should
ensure the project has similar agendas to avoid forgetting about important
topics to later remember them, say, just before a release.</P><P>Management also means keeping track of what happened. The
<A HREF="http://dep.debian.net/deps/dep0/">DEP proposal</A>, which I've contributed
to start, is an attempt to achieve that: no excessive extra burden induced, but
a work-flow to remember what is the status of "large" project-changing
proposals. The DPL should take care of "orphaned" DEPs by reassigning,
closing or driving them in first person. I will ensure that we give a try to
similar devices, to check whether we can finally have a sane choice between
hyper-formal decisions by the mean of GRs and folklore decisions which too
often resemble no decisions at all.</P><DIV CLASS="mantra">
<DIV CLASS="center"><I>I intend to be a </I><I><EM>present</EM></I><I> DPL, both in
discussions and as the responsible for the project agenda.</I></DIV>
</DIV><!--TOC subsubsection Transparency-->
<H4 CLASS="subsubsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc8">2.2.2</A>  Transparency</H4><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:transparency"></A></P><P>Another way for a DPL to be present is to disclose <EM>periodically</EM> what she
or he is doing; let's call it "transparency". In that respect, the standard
of a few "bits from the DPL" mails a term is unacceptable for a role which is
meant to represent such a big and diverse project. If faced with the dilemma, I
will favor ditching some DPL tasks and communicating about the others, over the
other way around.</P><P>It is likely that a given number of DPL activities are not suitable for
disclosure, whether they are personal to some, plain boring, or otherwise
should not be archived forever on the Web. I'm also aware that writing from
scratch a "bits from DPL" mail can be time consuming and possibly
intimidating.</P><P>The solution I will implement is to have some constant <B>feed of DPL
activity news</B>. "Feed" as a concept, the implementation can vary: an IRC
channel, blogging or micro-blogging, a wiki page <TT>BitsFromTheDPL</TT>
handled <EM>à la</EM>
<A HREF="http://wiki.debian.org/DeveloperNews"><TT>DeveloperNews</TT></A>, posts to
<TT>-private</TT> for sensitive material, etc. No feed activity will mean no
DPL activity and the right for DDs to complain and demand explanation. I
believe that activities which are not yet ready to be disclosed <EM>at all</EM>,
not even by censoring or rewording details, are scarce enough <EM>not</EM> to
imply empty feeds. The feed will then be frozen each month and
posted to <TT>d-d-a</TT>. If I fail to post and freeze twice, I will admit my
failure by explaining the reasons and seeking opinions on how to continue the
term.</P><DIV CLASS="mantra">
<DIV CLASS="center"><I>I will provide a stream of DPL activity news, to be
frozen and posted </I><I><EM>monthly</EM></I><I> to </I><I><TT>d-d-a</TT></I><I>.</I></DIV>
</DIV><!--TOC paragraph Money-->
<H5 CLASS="paragraph"><!--SEC ANCHOR -->Money</H5><!--SEC END --><P>
I believe we need transparency improvements also on <EM>money management</EM>:
both DDs and contributors should be able to check how money flows in/out our
bank accounts. I will investigate with the respective treasurers the
possibility of having such a public report. We do have quite some money (more
than 60K$ only in SPI account), having a clear view of how they are used might
encourage the whole project to use them in more proficuous manners
(e.g. dedicated machines or other resources for specific packaging needs).</P><!--TOC subsubsection No DPL board-->
<H4 CLASS="subsubsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc9">2.2.3</A>  No DPL board</H4><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:dpl-board"></A></P><P>According to past DPLs, carrying over the DPL burden all alone can be
daunting. To counter that, I will be constantly seeking advice from others, on
the basis of their project expertise. I do not believe in the utility of a
<B>DPL board</B>, so I will not have one; nor I will have a second in charge
(2IC). All in all, I haven't found evidence that either device can affect
significantly the outcome of a DPL term.</P><P>For more specific task assignments we have delegates, which is more than
enough. In particular, I would like to investigate the usage of
<EM>time-based delegations</EM> to carry on specific tasks which are considered
crucial to proceed along the project agenda. Time-based
delegation--implemented as normal delegations with a statement that they will
be undone, e.g. at DPL term end-- avoid concentration of powers and will give
delegates a time frame in which focus their efforts. I will welcome DDs to
propose themselves for term delegations on specific tasks they care about (as
long as the actual "delegation hat" is really needed).</P><DIV CLASS="mantra">
<DIV CLASS="center"><I>I will not have a DPL board; I will rather use delegations, possibly
constraining their duration.</I></DIV>
</DIV><!--TOC subsection Specific plans-->
<H3 CLASS="subsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc10">2.3</A>  Specific plans</H3><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:itches"></A></P><!--TOC subsubsection The website-->
<H4 CLASS="subsubsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc11">2.3.1</A>  The website</H4><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:website"></A></P><P>We all want a <A HREF="http://www.debian.org/vote/2007/platforms/sho">sexier
website</A>, i.e. a website where people can find what they look for, and which
does not make us look like Debian is an operating system of the 1980s. While
work on the issue <A HREF="http://wiki.debian.org/DebianWebsiteDiscussion">has
been going on</A> in the WWW team, we have not delivered visible improvements
yet.</P><P>As time passes, the drawbacks of the website <EM>status quo</EM> are becoming
more and more relevant. In particular we now need to clearly explain to our
(potential) community why we are better than other Debian-based distributions.
We need to explain that we are <EM>free from the bottom up</EM> (including all
pieces of our infrastructure) and that we are a <EM>truly democratic project</EM>
where decisions are taken by volunteers and not by money. In other words, we
need to promote <B>our vision</B> to the FOSS world and the website should
be the primary medium to convey it.</P><P>I intend to help the WWW team in order to solve the main issues within the
term. While it will be pointless to set the precise technical goals in a
platform, my intended course of actions will be as follows. All steps are meant
to be performed in agreement with the WWW team.
</P><OL CLASS="enumerate" type=1><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">
Establish the minimal requirements for an improved website in terms of:
message, structure, accessibility, work-flow. Make those requirements
<EM>public</EM> as well as a detailed plan of the work that needs to be done to
implement them: we will not hide problems.</LI><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">Send out a call for help to our community, looking for people willing to
take over the job and complete it in a given time frame. (Yes, I know we are
all volunteers, but we do take responsibilities and aim for deadlines, this
issue is relevant enough to ask for it.)<SUP><A NAME="text2" HREF="#note2">2</A></SUP></LI><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">Make sure the takers have access to the needed resources and that they
get credit for their attempt and, hopefully, success.</LI></OL><P>If all this fails, we will have an emergency plan. For instance, we can
consider an <EM>external</EM> bounty (i.e. nobody involved in Debian can take it)
to realize what is missing, under the supervision of the WWW team. We regularly
pay for services we are unable to produce by ourselves, the website should be
no difference.</P><!--TOC subsubsection Clarify delegates-->
<H4 CLASS="subsubsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc12">2.3.2</A>  Clarify delegates</H4><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:delegates"></A></P><P>Remember: TINC (there is no cabal). Good. Then:
</P><OL CLASS="enumerate" type=1><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">
all current <A HREF="http://www.debian.org/devel/constitution#8">delegates</A>
should be clearly stated at
<A HREF="http://www.debian.org/intro/organization">our organization page</A> with
reference to the delegation mail;</LI><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">all people in core teams which predate widespread use of delegation
should be officially delegated. This will avoid disparities between "young"
team members who are delegates and "old" team members who live in an
unclear limbo.
</LI></OL><!--TOC subsubsection Core teams-->
<H4 CLASS="subsubsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc13">2.3.3</A>  Core teams</H4><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:core-teams"></A></P><P>Our core teams have recently improved a lot, in terms of manpower and
communication. Kudos for that go to the last two DPLs, and of course to the
team themselves. Nevertheless some teams are still short, or so it seems from
the outside. Adding members makes a team more tolerant to absences, and also
helps to prepare the next generation of contributors. The distinction between
assistants and regulars in several teams seems to work very well in that
respect.</P><P>My naive intention would be to bring all core teams to at least three members
and to push for campaigning for assistants when there are no well-established
procedures for team joining. Also, by looking at our
<A HREF="http://www.debian.org/intro/organization">organization page</A> it looks as
if several teams are either inactive, or are very bad in communicating what
they are doing. For their own good, involved people should be encouraged to
either move to work on subjects which are more fun for them, or to communicate
periodically what they are doing.</P><P>All these changes however should be attempted first with team agreement, to not
bother potentially understaffed yet very efficient teams. The 2-year old
initiative of
<A HREF="http://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-announce/2008/04/msg00014.html">team
reviews</A> by Steve McIntyre has been in the right direction, though it will
obviously need revamping, as time passes for everybody.</P><!--TOC section Additional info-->
<H2 CLASS="section"><!--SEC ANCHOR -->Additional info</H2><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:extra"></A></P><!--TOC paragraph Time commitment-->
<H5 CLASS="paragraph"><!--SEC ANCHOR -->Time commitment</H5><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:time-commit"></A></P><P>Being DPL is challenging; for it to succeed the job must be taken
seriously. For the duration of the mandate I will therefore put on hold my
other Debian tasks: it is an obligation towards habitual co-workers and a fair
deal to avoid burning out. Most of my current Debian duties happen within
efficient teams, I'm confident the tasks will not remain unattended; the rest
consists in a handful of packages which will need new maintainers.</P><P>On the same topic and for the sake of clarity: some DPL candidates have in the
past declared their ability to act as DPL full-time. I cannot grant that. What
I offer is my Debian time, to be diverted to DPL tasks. Still, I have a very
<A HREF="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roberto_Di_Cosmo">FOSS-sensitive boss</A>: I
have the freedom to reorganize and possibly shrink my schedule for emergencies
and longer activities, such as traveling for Debian-related reasons. Like most
of us, I'm generally available on IRC, phone, etc.</P><!--TOC section Rebuttals-->
<H2 CLASS="section"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc14">A</A>  Rebuttals</H2><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:rebuttals"></A></P><!--TOC paragraph Wouter Verhelst-->
<H5 CLASS="paragraph"><!--SEC ANCHOR -->Wouter Verhelst</H5><!--SEC END --><P>I agree with several points of Wouter's "vision" on Debian and, in
particular, with the fact that we badly need to attract more developers to
remain technical excellent.</P><P>What is not clear to me reading his platform is how to actually achieve
that. For once, the idea of talking more with "Debian people" other than
DDs/DMs is wonderful--assuming that by that Wouter imagines the DPL attending
several events other than our "classical" developer-oriented events. That
however is not enough, because the big public of our potential contributors is
not (only) there. To that end, I found striking that our Web presence is not
mentioned in the platform as an important strategic area to attract more
developers.</P><P>Finally, I think that to achieve technical excellence attracting more
developers is needed, but is not enough. In the current Debian ecosystem, with
the success of some of our derivatives, technical excellence also passes
through exploiting synergies among all our derivatives. In that respect, I miss
in Wouter's platform his vision on topics like our relationships with
derivatives distribution.</P><!--TOC paragraph Charles Plessy-->
<H5 CLASS="paragraph"><!--SEC ANCHOR -->Charles Plessy</H5><!--SEC END --><P>Essentially, I think I don't share Charles' premises on Debian <EM>growth
crisis</EM>. Currently, I don't see Debian as having a problem of scale in the
number of packages, contributors, etc. Quite the contrary: I've rather the
impression that the available (relative) manpower is decreasing, and our
quality is suffering as a consequence. To counter that, we need to <EM>grow
more</EM>, especially in the number of Debian contributors.</P><P>I have mixed agreements and disagreements with other proposals advanced by
Charles. For instance I like the idea of delegate pings, whereas I don't like
the idea of flexible releases which--in Charles' keywords--seems to push the
balance too far away from <EM>coordination</EM>. Furthermore, I like the idea of
having the DPL managing "leftover" discussions (in fact, it is part of my
platform where I state that the DPL should take care of the project agenda, see
Section <A HREF="#sec:presence">2.2.1</A>).</P><P>As a final minor point, I'm not particularly at ease with the idea of a DPL not
being able to travel to attend meetings worldwide, as that is one of the most
typical among DPL duties.</P><!--TOC paragraph Margarita Manterola-->
<H5 CLASS="paragraph"><!--SEC ANCHOR -->Margarita Manterola</H5><!--SEC END --><P>Margarita's platform is inspiring about how we should all behave within the
Debian community. Still, I'm not sure that just stating how we should all
behave--or having the DPL behaving that way, as it has been pointed out on
<TT>-vote</TT>--is enough to actually have a significant change. The "Debian
appreciation day" is a nice idea too, but it doesn't look like it needs DPL
support to become a reality.</P><P>I also like the idea of promoting Debian with web campaigns et al. but, as I've
observed in response to Wouter's platform, I found striking to put emphasis on
those aspects which I consider minor glitches in the overall context of our
capacity to attract more people (which includes web presence, communication of
our distinguishing values, etc.).</P><!--TOC paragraph Thanks and good luck!-->
<H5 CLASS="paragraph"><!--SEC ANCHOR -->Thanks and good luck!</H5><!--SEC END --><P>Thus far, campaigning this year has been truly <EM>fun and exciting</EM> for
me. The merit goes not only to all contributors of intriguing questions on
<TT>-vote</TT>, but also to the fact that we are several active candidates
running. Thanks, candidates, and good luck for the election!</P><!--TOC section Changelog-->
<H2 CLASS="section"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc15">B</A>  Changelog</H2><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:changelog"></A></P><P><A HREF="http://www.debian.org/vote/2009/platforms/zack">My 2009 platform</A> and
this one are very much alike. For those who have read the latter, here is a
brief summary of significant changes:
</P><UL CLASS="itemize"><LI CLASS="li-itemize">
Revamp the section on derivatives, detail relationships with Ubuntu (see
Section <A HREF="#sec:vision">2.1</A>).
</LI><LI CLASS="li-itemize">I will not be looking for a 2IC, rather I plan to use normal delegations,
possibly constraining their duration (see Section <A HREF="#sec:dpl-board">2.2.3</A>).
</LI><LI CLASS="li-itemize">Realize the role of the website in communicating our vistion (see
Section <A HREF="#sec:website">2.3.1</A>).
</LI><LI CLASS="li-itemize">Minor changes pretty much everywhere <TT>:-)</TT>
</LI></UL><!--BEGIN NOTES document-->
<HR CLASS="footnoterule"><DL CLASS="thefootnotes"><DT CLASS="dt-thefootnotes">
<A NAME="note1" HREF="#text1">1</A></DT><DD CLASS="dd-thefootnotes">that includes the universe, but the universe is nevertheless
an important selling point for them
</DD><DT CLASS="dt-thefootnotes"><A NAME="note2" HREF="#text2">2</A></DT><DD CLASS="dd-thefootnotes">even though it was way
simpler, my experience with the
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/blog/posts/2007/12/pts_face_lifted/">PTS face
lift</A> shows that our community is responsive to our deficiencies in Web
presence: i asked for a new PTS CSS layout, got several replies, and chose
one of them. It required some back and forth round trips, but is nothing
different from the usual patch work-flow.
</DD></DL>
<!--END NOTES-->
<!--CUT END -->
<!--HTMLFOOT-->
<!--ENDHTML-->
<!--FOOTER-->
<HR SIZE=2><BLOCKQUOTE CLASS="quote"><EM>This document was translated from L<sup>A</sup>T<sub>E</sub>X by
</EM><A HREF="http://hevea.inria.fr/index.html"><EM>H</EM><EM><FONT SIZE=2><sup>E</sup></FONT></EM><EM>V</EM><EM><FONT SIZE=2><sup>E</sup></FONT></EM><EM>A</EM></A><EM>.</EM></BLOCKQUOTE></BODY>
