#use wml::debian::template title="Platform for Gustavo Franco" BARETITLE="true" NOHEADER="true"
#include "$(ENGLISHDIR)/vote/style.inc"



  <h1>
    Platform for Gustavo Franco
  </h1>
  <br>

<br>
 Introduction<br>
I was born in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil - some time ago. I work for a NGO called
Information Network<br>
for The Third Sector - that is focused on strengthening civil society
organizations and social movements,<br>
where i am coordinating the technology team, supervising the internet services
from our own ISP and<br>
leading the development of a custom Debian distribution.<br>
<br>
I've been using free software for ten years and Debian for seven years, during
this time i give a<br>
lot of FOSS related talks across the country. Besides GNU/Linux, i have also
used FreeBSD and<br>
OpenBSD operating systems. I like them and look forward to a Lenny release with
kfreebsd-i386<br>
and kfreebsd-amd64, at least.<br>
<br>
<br>
 Why vote for Gustavo Franco ?<br>
I've started contributing to the Debian project almost six years ago and waited
for my account<br>
creation after recommended to the DAM for more than three years, it happened two
years<br>
ago. During these two years i have done much more than before, and the keyword
is: motivation.<br>
<br>
I ask your vote to keep motivated people working to meet our goals, during my
term. I'll cover<br>
these goals in detail below and if you share a lot of them, i think i am your
candidate, otherwise<br>
if you share just a few of them i think you should rank me just below your
preferred candidate. There's<br>
the possibility that i haven't outlined any common goal we've here, don't hate
me instantly. Drop me<br>
a message privately and tell me about your goals into the Debian project. I'll
do my best to point out<br>
at least one we've in common and work on it during my term, if elected.<br>
<br>
I would like to inform that considering that we can't force volunteer work,
people on key positions that<br>
are overloaded or unable to do volunteer work for some reason, will need to
share their roles with<br>
others for the better of our universal operating system. Voting in me means that
you respect people's<br>
legacy and skills but don't accept not well documented and immutable positions
in our<br>
organizational structure.<br>
<br>
<br>
 History in Debian<br>
After joining pkg-perl team and contributing into the group as a whole,
including policy updates. I<br>
figured that we had not a similar project for python modules so i founded the
Debian Python Modules<br>
Team with Guilherme Pastore right after we were joined by Raphaël Hertzog and
many others<br>
contributors. I've also started the pkg-ltsp group after talking in real life
with Otavio Salvador about the<br>
ltsp packaging status and how we lagged behind Ubuntu. Then i organized a online
meeting with Ubuntu ltsp<br>
maintainers and Debian ltsp maintainers to discuss cooperation, as a result
we've now almost the same<br>
set of features in unstable and Debian Etch can easily be used as a thin-client
server.<br>
<br>
I've also managed to glue: Debian Desktop development website, debian-desktop
mailing list and<br>
debian-desktop project in alioth - including pkg-gnome, pkg-kde and pkg-xfce
members to work<br>
around a real Debian Desktop with common artwork and set of features, during
Etch development cycle. Also<br>
with cooperation from tasksel, debian-cd and debian-live project members, i
think we've in Etch the best<br>
Debian desktop experience ever.<br>
<br>
I'm also a member and contributed to the following groups: Debian web pages,
GNOME Team, tasksel,<br>
debtags, Debian-BR, Ubuntu Backmerging Team and pkg-galago.<br>
<br>
<br>
My platform<br>
I plan to dedicate more time on the key topics below. I want to send monthly or
as-it-happens<br>
updates to debian-devel-announce with the related bug numbers (if any) or report
summary. I'll<br>
keep you informed about what i consider as key and others issues that i am sure
will appear:<br>
<br>
 - The Core Teams<br>
I consider the Debian server administration (including ftp archives), keyring
management, documentation,<br>
ports, security, release management and installer the key areas into the
project. These areas and the<br>
corresponding core teams except for documentation, release management and
installer are easily the<br>
most criticized groups for more than six years. During this time we've released
slink, woody, sarge and<br>
are challenged by some children distributions that in the next six years or less
will be more relevant<br>
than Debian in every area and will be able to claim that they are really
developing the<br>
universal operating system.<br>
<br>
I will request from the core teams clear procedures on how a Debian developer
can contribute to them<br>
and join them after some time, by merit. I want to make clear how a assistant
role differs from a full<br>
member of a core team and how a assistant can apply to be a full member. In less
than one year, there<br>
will be no single point of failure in any key area, if you really don't want it.<br>
<br>
Let make clear that i won't candidate myself as member of any core team during
my term.<br>
<br>
I will also work to keep Debian's Organizational Structure page updated and
document every position<br>
listed there.<br>
<br>
 - Release goals<br>
The Debian project has no fixed release schedule and the basic argument from
those who support<br>
this approach is that it enhances quality. Regardless of how much time you spend
during a<br>
development cycle, if you don't do the work there will be no enough quality to
promote. The other<br>
point is if you keep working without clear goals besides the better quality
possible, you will<br>
never release.<br>
<br>
I heard that a company based on Redmond is known to spend a lot of years between
their<br>
operating system release and this approach alone have not increased the product
quality nor they<br>
have the greatest and latest tools bundled with the OS.<br>
<br>
Previous DPL candidates proposed Debian to increase its tempo and a fixed
release schedule.<br>
Unfortunately, i have seen no real actions from them besides the hard work from
the release team<br>
during Etch development cycle.<br>
<br>
I want to move forward and clearly define Lenny release goals during my term. I
think that there is<br>
a lot of key software and projects (involving groups or groups of groups) in
Debian that can be used<br>
as "backing track" for our releases (eg.: kernel, installer, the most used web
server, the most common<br>
desktop environments). With "backing track", i meant that once we have the
upstream versions<br>
defined previously by us in place, that's time to freeze and establish the
operating system as a whole.<br>
Like we've a procedure for qualify an architecture for release, i want to
discuss with the release team<br>
and you a procedure for qualify a software or project as a release goal.<br>
<br>
 - The Bug^W Debian Tracking System<br>
Actually, we're not using our Tracking System's full potential. The code behind
bugs.debian.org, with just<br>
a few add-ons, some tweaks and usertags proper usage can act as what i call the
Debian<br>
Tracking System. You're free to keep calling this "BTS" though, but if elected i
will push for the<br>
following changes:<br>
<br>
* Add vote support. If well implemented, a contributor or developer can easily
spot bugs that<br>
affect many users. Every release critical bug receive attention before release,
the same can't be<br>
said about non release critical bugs, but a lot of them annoy many users.<br>
<br>
* Add "report a bug" in the web. Let the users write bug reports against
packages or pseudo-packages<br>
into the bugs.debian.org/packagename page, requiring an submitter email and
maybe implementing<br>
CAPTCHA. Send the submitter a "confirm your bug report" message before sending
the bug report<br>
to the package maintainer and listing it into the web interface.<br>
<br>
* Add debian-admin pseudo-package. I would like to see debian admin team
preferably using the<br>
system to track public pending issues. Please also read #408150 at
http://bugs.debian.org/408150<br>
<br>
* Add a statistics page. It would contain at least the recent top 5 bug closers,
bugs closed and bugs opened.<br>
<br>
* Extend the usertags concept to implement userbugs, as in bugs that only the
submitter or a<br>
group of subscribed people (including the maintainer or not) can manage through
the email, but won't be<br>
displayed in the bugs web page of a package or pseudo-package. This feature is
useful for projects like<br>
utnubu and could also be used for transitions.<br>
<br>
I also want to make sure that any localization initiative involving a web
interface to coordinate<br>
translations will not turn the current wishlist bugs approach we've into BTS a
maintenance nightmare. I<br>
think we can deprecate the current behaviour periodically importing the pending
translations into the<br>
new system, but it would be better if the new system could coexist and respect
the BTS bug numbers. This<br>
way importing a translation for a package release, would still close a bug.<br>
<br>
Unfortunately i haven't discussed yet these proposals (except for #408150) with
the BTS admins due<br>
to time constraints, but if elected i will prepare with help of others a more
detailed proposal for each feature<br>
and initial patches for them.<br>
<br>
 - New Developers<br>
That's clear we need new and skilled developers, Debian Developers are a rare
resource, Debian<br>
regular contributors aren't so common and we have many users to satisfy. It
isn't easy as it sounds,<br>
keep the 'fresh blood' coming. I would like to see Joerg Jaspert with full DAM
privileges (including<br>
keyring maintenance capabilities), promoting a well known AM by its results as
DAM assistant to work<br>
together with Joerg and James.<br>
<br>
 - New Packages<br>
I think that one or two new people can handle packages in NEW queue that are not
really new, but just old<br>
source packages generating new binaries without licensing changes. This change
will be done<br>
if needed, after ftpmaster team review. Who and why assistants are assistants
and what they can't<br>
do that full members are supposed to do.<br>
<br>
 - The Technical Committee<br>
The Technical Committee is established by the Debian
constitution, section 6. It is the
body which<br>
makes the final decision on technical disputes in the Debian project. If the web
page is up-to-date<br>
their last technical decision was in 2004, the committee was extended after that
though. I would be<br>
glad to see a more active technical committee during my term.<br>
<br>
I also plan to propose a General Resolution to change our constitution (6.6) to
bring at least two<br>
elected members into the technical committee during my term and be sure that the
changed<br>
constitution will allow us rotate the technical committee members from time to
time. I believe that<br>
we will see interesting platforms coming from skilled people into the project
interested in review<br>
and work on to solve our problems exposed by the Bug^W Debian Tracking System<br>
(pseudopackage: tech-ctte). I think it can be the next logical step to active
and vibrant<br>
members of the community with a interesting history into the project, and feel
they can act like<br>
a bridge between any Debian contributor and the core of the project on technical
issues.<br>
<br>
 - The Debian hidden treasure: Groups, subprojects 
and supergroups <br>
There's a lot of Debian users and enthusiasts that don't realize how much we've
evolved in terms<br>
of groups, subprojects and supergroups. I understand groups as any group in
alioth; subprojects as<br>
more official groups with a page into our official website and supergroups as a
group of groups<br>
(eg.: debian-desktop).<br>
<br>
I think that without our GForge setup (in alioth) we wouldn't have so much
organized groups,<br>
supergroups and even some subprojects that already existed but weren't much
active. During<br>
my term i will discuss with the technical committee if it's worth write detailed
technical procedures<br>
to a alioth group apply and be promoted to a subproject. It would be special
useful for service<br>
oriented groups (eg.: backports and sponsors), because some users simple don't
know or refuse to<br>
use them because their non-official status.<br>
<br>
Groups, subprojects or supergroups, i think as a community we should use and
promote more<br>
what's cool and working. I see proposals involving stuff that mentors and
sponsors does for<br>
ages. Spread the word about your favorites alioth projects now!<br>
<br>
 - New software in a stable release and
backports<br>
Based on the criteria to promote groups to subprojects, i would like to see
backports promoted<br>
during Lenny development cycle. This way we will be able to add new but
officialy supported<br>
software in a stable release. The security support and criteria for inclusion
needs further<br>
discussion, that i plan to do with the involved teams and technical committee.<br>
<br>
 - Debian is a universal operating
system<br>
Where's the Debsphere then? The Debian project needs more official events and a<br>
calendar to track them. I think that the debconf (our major yearly event)
current and<br>
past organizers can share their experience with local event organizers on how to
obtain<br>
and handle funds from sponsors and put local conferences out of the paper. I'll
discuss with<br>
the parties involved the possibility of create a formal events team too.<br>
<br>
I'll do my best to see at least debconf asia, debconf north america and debconf
latin america<br>
happening after our global debconf in Scotland this year and before the global
debconf in<br>
Argentina. These local Debian conferences should be smaller and focused on
reunite<br>
developers and contributors that couldn't attend the global event due to its
distance and<br>
schedule, give local related talks, develop the local related agenda, work on to
organize<br>
bug squashing parties. With the possibility of invite and welcome some
foreigners of course.<br>
&nbsp;<br>
I want to promote the "week of Debian", a week in August where Debian user
groups, some Linux<br>
user groups and the Debian community as a whole will be encouraged to promote
user<br>
related events. Developers can participate help organizing such events or giving
talks. The groups<br>
interested in developers talks from distant areas will be able to contact us and
we can act as a<br>
router between the organizers, sponsors and the developer to fund the travel and
cover<br>
others costs. The "week of Debian" organizers will prepare a list with
developers willing to<br>
give talks in a volunteer manner, close to their home or in distant areas.<br>
<br>
I'm all for development "hands on" groups meeting, a events team could do the
hard work of<br>
organize such specialized kind of conference and the development group can
dedicate most<br>
of its time to do what they do better. The events team also can act as a gateway
between the<br>
press team and the group busy working on our next big feature, to make sure that
the development<br>
summit results are well known by anyone interested.<br>
<br>
 - Debian ports<br>
I will do my best to motivate more people to help us release Lenny supporting
kfreebsd-i386 and<br>
kfreebsd-amd64, and try to push a major vendor to officially support Debian
GNU/KFreeBSD servers,<br>
if elected.<br>
<br>
I also want to discuss source-only uploads and the possibility of force a
source-only upload compile on<br>
a fast enough architecture before trying in a slower one. I would like to see
and help Lucas Nussbaum<br>
working on piuparts over testing during Lenny development cycle to spot bugs
that passed<br>
unnoticed and if successful enable basic upgrade/install/remove tests on almost
any package, after<br>
compiling on a fast enough architecture.<br>
<br>
I'm all for virtualized build tests, specially on architectures we will not
release in Etch. The people<br>
interested on this project, if elected, can contact me. I will make a proposal
for the technical committee<br>
related with buildds results guidelines. Hopefully with Lenny+1 this discussion
will be a thing of the past<br>
and we will have full and stable virtualized autobuilders.<br>
<br>
 - Debian friendly hardware and vendors<br>
During my term i want to make at least one major desktop hardware vendor sell
and support<br>
machines with Debian Etch desktop pre-installed. I also want to make one major
Linux powered<br>
gadget vendor use Debian Etch. Based on HP results during 2006, in theory it
will be easier see a major<br>
vendor add support to a product line or two in the server camp. Anyway, it will
encourage their<br>
competitors, also medium and smaller players to also sell Debian support. There
are two interesting<br>
and intentional side effects: Our users will have more options to run Debian,
and we will enlarge<br>
the universe of possible Debian contributors employers.<br>
<br>
I'll work on with the related teams to write specific documentation for vendors
interested in<br>
pre-load unmodified Debian on their systems. It is easier than they think using
debian-installer<br>
preseeding, we just need to tell them.<br>
<br>
I am aware of the computer vendors that pre-install Debian list at:<br>
http://www.debian.org/distrib/pre-installed . I'm not sure the list is really
accurate, but i will work<br>
with the press and www teams for a wider usage and to make sure we keep the
entries updated.<br>
<br>
 - Debian website<br>
We've a fantastic website in terms of content and localization but without
search engines i<br>
don't enjoy browsing it and i am sure others will share the same view. I want to
review with<br>
the web team the most common Debian website use cases and where we fail to cover
them,<br>
a small design update, possibility of integration with some wiki content and
work on Debian web<br>
guidelines for content not hosted by us. I want to make it easier to people
working on websites<br>
around the Debian ecosystem use a similar design and promote it as a best
practice.<br>
<br>
I am open to temporarily 'fork' the website to test new ideas, with access
restricted to<br>
developers-only and collect feedback at debian-www mailing list. These new ideas
can be<br>
be tests to cover some use cases and the small design update, as cited above. I
like the bar in<br>
one of the proposals to the debian-community.org layout<br>
(http://www.debian-community.org/dc_proposal2.png), and i think that details
like these<br>
could be tested over our current website content.<br>
<br>
- Debian Publicity<br>
I will discuss with the press team and debian-publicity mailing list, strategies
on how to promote<br>
more what is actually so good about Debian project and Debian GNU/Linux
operating system.<br>
There are tons of possibilities, like promote more alioth and
sponsors.debian.net usage for<br>
newcomers. Issue more press releases with relevant content or with companies,
publishing that they<br>
had good results using Debian or selling support. I would like to read more
Debian articles on general<br>
technology related websites and magazines than just only on FOSS dedicated
websites and i will do<br>
my best for this during my term.<br>
<br>
 - Non-Maintainer Uploads<br>
I'll promote the LowThresholdNMU, that is today in the wiki and is opt-in for
each maintainer,<br>
for each package. We can do this using a new optional file into debian
directory, called<br>
'nmupolicy' containing something like the following:<br>
Format: 1<br>
NMUFriendly: Yes|No<br>
NMUNotes: &lt;comment&gt;<br>
<br>
* Packages without both fields should be NMUed following the current rules or if
otherwise<br>
stated by the release management team.<br>
<br>
* Packages with the NMUFriendly set to yes and no NMUNotes field should be still
treated as<br>
maintained by the person or group listed in the Maintainer field but uploadable
by any other developer,<br>
following a simple rule: Patch attached to a bug in the BTS before upload.<br>
<br>
* Packages with the NMUFriendly set to yes and with NMUNotes should state in
this field clear<br>
notes on how the NMUer should proceed different than "patch attached to a bug in
the BTS before<br>
upload". The following sentences are valid examples: "Contact
debian-desktop@lists.debian.org<br>
and wait at least 4 days."; "Just NMU for normal bugs or greater"; "Just NMU for
RC bugs";<br>
"No NMU for wishlist bugs".<br>
<br>
* Packages with the NMUFriendly set to no and no NMUNotes field should be
treated as if both<br>
fields weren't being used.<br>
<br>
Debian Policy and new maintainers guide (at least) should be updated to document
'nmupolicy' file<br>
usage. dh_make code could be updated to create a debian/nmupolicy template. PTS,
bugscanner,<br>
lintian and linda codes could be also updated to use these fields.<br>
<br>
<br>
I will also tattoo a swirl in the end of my
term. -- stratus<br>
<br>

Rebuttals<br>
<br><br>
Wouter Verhelst<br>
I'm sure he has some general ideas about how to solve some Debian
problems and improve<br>
the situation, my problem with his platform is that he failed to make
clear what he's going<br>
to do. I want a more communicative and transparent atmosphere and Wouter
started failing<br>
as a lead right from his platform. He is a great contributor, though.<br>
<br><br>
Aigars Mahinovs<br>
Debian aims to be a Universal Operating System. A Universal operating
system with no<br>
releases makes no sense from my point of view, but if Aigars wants
something Debian that<br>
will never be released 'as is' and actually is a trunk. He is free to
use and advocate<br>
unstable (sid). There's no need to be DPL and change nothing.<br>
<br><br>
Sven Luther<br>
Rebuttal Coming Soon.<br>
<br><br>
Sam Hocevar<br>
Sam has a interesting platform, with some good points. It seems that we
sit and write our<br>
platforms together, but we didn't. I don't know him, really. I just
don't think that make fun of<br>
his own ideas will bring us to a better atmosphere. I hope he push to do
a lot of stuff he<br>
proposed on his platform if not elected. It seems that his decision to
not change any<br>
delegations will put him on a frozen state if elected.<br>
<br><br>
Steve McIntyre<br>
Steve seems to be a great person, and i had the pleasure to work with
him while fixing<br>
Simple-CDD to work with the new debian-cd. Unfortunately, i fail to see
where he as the 2IC<br>
during the last term, pushed to do what was on his and/or Anthony's 06'
platform. I can't<br>
trust that he has enough motivation and commitment to his current
platform then.<br>
<br><br>
Raphaël Hertzog<br>
Raphaël usually has good ideas from what i've seen. The DPL board isn't
a bad idea and i<br>
wasn't expecting him to declare that a 8 person board would perform 8
times better than<br>
a DPL alone. My problem with his platform is that there are just a few
ideas coming from<br>
him, and nothing from the other 8. Are they going to do something
really? Why not<br>
bring more visibility to the technical committee and ask members advice,
as I've<br>
proposed ? There are 3 candidates listed as possible board members. Why
these other<br>
three aren't writing about the DPL board on their platforms? Is this a
trap? I hope not.<br>
<br><br>
Anthony Towns<br>
I think if he focused more on his platform from the last year he would
be a better<br>
DPL. I feel sorry for so many critics he's receiving due to his legacy
and skills into the<br>
project, really. Unfortunately, it seems that he failed again using his
current platform<br>
to publish a sort of past year schedule than apologies for mistakes,
consider what he did<br>
and wasn't evaluated yet and justify why he haven't moved on with the
changes proposed<br>
on his 06' platform.
<br><br>
Simon Richter<br>
Same deal as Wouter, with the fact that Simon wrote even less.<br>
