950641211 <Rob Levin> Good morning, afternoon and evening, everyone. :)
950641228 <Rob Levin> Welcome to the Y2K Debian Leadership Debates
950641245 <Rob Levin> I'm your moderator, Rob Levin, the head of operations of Open Projects
950641298 <Rob Levin> we've assembled you all so that we can have a public forum in which the candidates can talk about who they are, and what they can bring to the job of Debian Project Leader
950641327 <Rob Levin> as you'll note from the web site, this debate will be divided into two sections:  formal question/answer and an informal q/a from the participants
950641343 <Rob Levin> to submit a question for the second  half, email it to:  dld2k@openprojects.net
950641378 <Rob Levin> please make your questions fairly anonymous; we'll try to prioritize them as best we can, but all of the questions will be posted without headers after the debate, so the candidates and others can look at them and consider them
950641415 <Rob Levin> we'll do that raw, so try to be nice, please :)  question floods will probably have to be removed, so please don't go there
950641495 <Rob Levin> our candidates are Ben Collins, Wichert Akkerman, Joel Klecker and Matthew Vernon
950641542 <Rob Levin> tentatively, we'll provide 3 minutes per answer per candidate during the formal question period
950641579 <Rob Levin> we can provide more if necessary, but we want to allow questions for the audience
950641595 <Rob Levin> when you send informal questions to dld2k@openprojects.net, please make sure the header begins with QUESTION
950641597 <Rob Levin> thanks
950641601 <Rob Levin> on to our first question
950641619 <Rob Levin> In the past RMS has requested from Debian a distribution that does not include
950641630 <Rob Levin> any non-free software or references to non-free software. Many ideas have been
950641630 <Rob Levin> sugested to satisfy this request. What should Debian do, if anything?
950641648 <Rob Levin> we'll start with Matthew
950641683 <Rob Levin> one moment, please :)
950641713 <Matthew Vernon> AIUI, we already do this to a greater or lesser extent - main contains only free software, and anything that depends on non-free things is in contrib. The question of whether packages should Suggest: or Recommend: non-free things is different.
950641740 <Matthew Vernon> IMHO, it would be better if they didn't, but if there are no free alternatives, then it seems sensible to provide the relevant information
950641775 <Rob Levin> Matthew Vernon: do you have additional comments?
950641782 <Matthew Vernon> I can see RMS's point, but I think trying to hide the fact that <foo> is enhanced by <bar> won't gain us much
950641813 <Matthew Vernon> No. Would people rather I wrote everything at once, or one line at a time?
950641827 <Rob Levin> Matthew Vernon: just let us know when you are finished
950641831 <Wichert Akkerman> everything at once, people can scroll if needed
950641857 <Ben Collins> may run into a line length problem though...but longer lines help
950641862 <Matthew Vernon> Off-topic, how do get rid of all these netsplits and so on?
950641864 <Rob Levin> we'll format
950641874 <Jason Gunthorpe>  /ignore * crap
950641894 <Rob Levin> Matthew Vernon: off-topic, I'm looking for sockets programmers for a follow-on to ircd :)
950641901 <Rob Levin> okay, let's go to Ben Collins
950641904 <Rob Levin> Ben Collins: go ahead
950641933 <Ben Collins> ok...IMO, we are already starting to see this form. Like anything it takes time to change how things have been done for so long
950641962 <Rob Levin> wi re 9
950641966 <Rob Levin> (oops)
950641987 <Ben Collins> I do believe that we should not completely "hide" non-free, as this is against our current beliefs to support and acknoledge that non-free software exists
950642027 <Ben Collins> advancements in our archive management (package pools, etc..) and package tools (apt) will allow us to give the users a clear choice as to whether or not they want non-free software
950642035 <Ben Collins> educating is better then forcing
950642038 <Ben Collins> (done)
950642052 <Rob Levin> okay, next, Joel Klecker
950642055 <Rob Levin> Joel?
950642120 <Rob Levin> I think we may be missing Joel Klecker :)
950642152 <Wichert Akkerman> he appeared to be alive earlier on
950642170 <Rob Levin> I'm not getting a ping response, but some clients eat pings
950642177 <Ben Collins> me either
950642182 <Jason Gunthorpe> lets go on to wichert for the moment then
950642188 * Rob Levin nods
950642190 <Rob Levin> Wichert?
950642196 <Wichert Akkerman> that's me
950642205 <Rob Levin> the question is to you :)
950642221 <Wichert Akkerman> I think people already know I support the idea; I've proposed doing this last year already,
950642237 <Wichert Akkerman> but it got stranded on the fact that it's hard to split and we didn't really know how do it it
950642248 <Wichert Akkerman> and pressure from other things that needed more immediate attention
950642285 <Wichert Akkerman> The idea of having a distribution that only uses free software
950642301 <Wichert Akkerman> and doesn't need anything else appeals to me, and if we can do it without
950642324 <Wichert Akkerman> decreasing our support for non-free software I think we should definitely do it
950642358 <Wichert Akkerman> It isn't so much as hiding non-free software, as well as proving that you can live quite well without it
950642372 <Wichert Akkerman> We'll always have and support non-free software
950642421 <Wichert Akkerman> (done)
950642436 <Rob Levin> okay....we're still having difficulties locating Joel Klecker
950642446 <Rob Levin> we can come back to him if need be
950642453 <Rob Levin> in the meantime, the next question will begin with Wichert
950642465 <Rob Levin> During your term the new-maintainer processes was closed by the
950642465 <Rob Levin> new-maintainer team. Many people considered their actions to be
950642467 <Rob Levin> inappropriate. How should inappropriate unilateral actions by
950642475 <Rob Levin> delegates/teams be treated by the project?
950642480 <Rob Levin> Wichert?
950642495 <Wichert Akkerman> yes
950642514 <Wichert Akkerman> New-maintainer might be a bad example of this actually
950642549 <Wichert Akkerman> New-maintainer is a really important function in Debian
950642571 <Wichert Akkerman> people in the committee have the power to make people developers
950642577 <Wichert Akkerman> or remove their developer status.
950642586 <Wichert Akkerman> I agree that new maintainer was closed for way too long
950642593 <Wichert Akkerman> and something should have been done earlier.
950642639 <Wichert Akkerman> However in this case the fact that a) it's a really important job where you can't easily replace people, and b) we had people in new-maintainer who were willing to continue provided there was a
950642657 <Wichert Akkerman> good new structure for handling it, I was very hestitant in replacing them
950642679 <Wichert Akkerman> I hope that this will prove to be the right decision in the end, but we'll have to see how it works out
950642684 <Wichert Akkerman> More generally,
950642699 <Wichert Akkerman> I don't think a delegate should be treated much differently in this respect then other maintainers
950642720 <Wichert Akkerman> If someone isn't active, we should try to get them more involved and active again
950642740 <Wichert Akkerman> If that really doesn't seem possible, we'll have to replace someone
950642753 <Rob Levin> okay....
950642767 <Rob Levin> I'm going to cut this off at 4 minutes, and we'll give everyone 4 minutes for this question
950642767 <Wichert Akkerman> I'll stop now to give other a chance to answer this :)
950642783 <Rob Levin> Joel Klecker, are you back?
950642794 <Rob Levin> apparently not
950642803 <Rob Levin> Matthew Vernon is next
950642807 <Matthew Vernon> I think it's something that has to be dealt with on a case-by-case basis. In the case of nm - it seems like the problem could have been predicted before it happened. That notwithstanding, if a team decides that it's had enough, we can't (and shouldn't) force them to continue doing their task. I'm proposing to keep in contact with all such groups, so that I can monitor when things are getting tough, and take prophylactic action; prevention being
950642807 <Rob Levin> Matthew?
950642842 <Matthew Vernon> I'm not about to take pot-shots at people about how nm was handled, especially since it's very close to re-opening
950642861 <Matthew Vernon> The important thing now in that regard is to move forwards again.
950642887 <Matthew Vernon> Generally, better communication should prevent this sort of thing though - and I think that's very important.
950642891 <Matthew Vernon> (done)
950642910 <Rob Levin> okay....
950642916 <Wichert Akkerman> mind if I make a short statement here?
950642923 <Rob Levin> wichert: it's sort of out of order
950642938 <Wichert Akkerman> your call
950642939 <Rob Levin> wichert: unless it does not pertain to the debate; clear announcements via /msg
950642951 <Wichert Akkerman> k
950642952 <Rob Levin> Ben Collins?
950642960 <Ben Collins> ok
950642994 <Ben Collins> I think I differ in my assessment of the "new maintainer fallout" in that I think it deals more generally with some core issues in our structure...
950643031 <Ben Collins> after talking to a couple of people involved with new maintainer I was shown that they were basically asking for help quite a while before they decided to close
950643041 <Ben Collins> asking for help indirectly, but still, they asked
950643059 <Ben Collins> I don't think anyone can point fingers since no one was at fault
950643075 <Ben Collins> we were just not prepared structurally to deal with such as event
950643153 <Ben Collins> the future holds some very significant changes, in that we need a better structure to handle our core functionlity...things like ftp admin, system admin, new maintainer etc...
950643185 <Ben Collins> there is not a very well defined strucure insuring that these functions (aside from the people) will go on inthe event that another fallout occurs
950643200 <Ben Collins> this needs to be changed
950643202 <Ben Collins> (done)
950643216 <Joel Klecker> .
950643222 <Rob Levin> ah, okay
950643235 <Rob Levin> I'm going to add Joel Klecker in on the first question
950643247 <Rob Levin> he hasn't been here, so I figure he doesn't get much advantage :)
950643256 <Rob Levin> repeating question one, and you'll have 3 minutes
950643259 <Rob Levin> Joel Klecker: are you with us?
950643269 <Joel Klecker> yes
950643274 <Rob Levin> In the past RMS has requested from Debian a distribution that does not include
950643274 <Rob Levin> any non-free software or references to non-free software. Many ideas have been
950643275 <Rob Levin> sugested to satisfy this request. What should Debian do, if anything?
950643306 <Rob Levin> Joel: go ahead
950643376 <Rob Levin> we're experiencing problems
950643396 <Rob Levin> if necessary, we'll time his responses to each question and insert them into the record before we post the logs :)
950643403 <Joel Klecker> no we're not, i just don't have an answer
950643420 <Rob Levin> Joel Klecker: ah, okay....when you're done, please signify with (done)
950643430 <Rob Levin> so, we'll go ahead and give you question 2, if that's okay?
950643461 <Rob Levin> During wichert's term the new-maintainer processes was closed by the
950643461 <Rob Levin> new-maintainer team. Many people considered their actions to be
950643461 <Rob Levin> inappropriate. How should inappropriate unilateral actions by
950643462 <Joel Klecker> fine
950643463 <Rob Levin> delegates/teams be treated by the project?
950643468 <Rob Levin> Joel Klecker: go ahead
950643542 <Rob Levin> we can provide about 30 seconds more for Joel's answer to begin, and then we'll have to move on
950643593 <Rob Levin> okay, on to the next question
950643612 <Rob Levin> Matthew Vernon will take this question first
950643612 <Rob Levin> Debian's recent growth has been tremendous. The project has nearly doubled
950643613 <Rob Levin> its size in all areas. Is this growth maintainable? Should anything be done
950643614 <Rob Levin> to make Debian more scalable or to reduce the growth?
950643618 <Rob Levin> Matthew?
950643672 <Wichert Akkerman> (Matthew is checking into his connection at the moment, apparentily he was just disconnected)
950643713 <Ben Collins> he needs to be op'd
950643715 <Ben Collins> or +v
950643725 <Matthew Vernon> I think this growth is a good thing, to a certain extent. I clearly could get to the point of being un-manageable, but it hasn't got to that point yet
950643738 <Rob Levin> (this is a 3-minute question again)
950643757 <Matthew Vernon> As I said in my opening speech, communication seems to be the key to maintaining growth.
950643818 <Matthew Vernon> The DPL needs to keep in touch with the various groups (ftp-admin, nw, qa, and so on) to ensure that they're happy and everything is going OK. Tasks that used to only need one or two people will need to be taken on by more people, and the DPL will have to co-ordinate that.
950643852 <Matthew Vernon> (done) I'll go and try and sort out my god-awful connectivity now
950643859 <Rob Levin> okay....
950643869 <Rob Levin> Ben Collins?
950643893 <Ben Collins> ok, I hate to make direct comments on another candidates answer, but hey, this is a debate :)
950643903 <Rob Levin> Ben Collins: it's permitted
950643905 <Ben Collins> I disagree that were are in a manageable state right now
950643937 <Ben Collins> there are much needed tasks that are impossible to do at this point
950643966 <Ben Collins> removing the cruft from our archive in over 4000 packages and 7+ archs is next undoable by any means
950643977 <Rob Levin> we'll have to cut off at this point
950643984 <Ben Collins> ?
950643994 * Rob Levin checks his calculation, a bit over 3 minutes
950644007 <Ben Collins> hmm...seemed very short
950644011 <Ben Collins> (done) :)
950644016 <Rob Levin> let me double check
950644024 <Wichert Akkerman> that was 3 min for the both of you I think
950644033 <Ben Collins> that sounds more accurate
950644044 <Rob Levin> okay, my goof, you have almost 2 minutes
950644046 <Rob Levin> please continue
950644048 <Ben Collins> ok
950644072 <Ben Collins> we will have to install better control over our archive...
950644125 <Ben Collins> communications is also not the single key answer...without a working basis on which to develop (well defined charters for each of the groups), we cannot not know who to talk to , or who needs to make the decisions vital to sustaining our growth
950644138 <Ben Collins> (done)
950644153 <Rob Levin> thank you ben, apologies for that moderator glitch :)
950644158 <Rob Levin> Wichert?
950644168 <Wichert Akkerman> coming
950644175 <Wichert Akkerman> So far we seem to be handling the growth pretty well, and I think it's done is
950644175 <Wichert Akkerman> a lot of good as well. However it will mean we'll have to constantly look at
950644175 <Wichert Akkerman> our organization and see if it needs to be changes. We already did this by
950644175 <Wichert Akkerman> creating lists like debian-devel and debian-private, creating a new-maintainer
950644175 <Wichert Akkerman> team, a constitution, etc. As I also already said in my openening speech we
950644175 <Wichert Akkerman> will need to focus on areas such as quality control as well.
950644201 <Wichert Akkerman> .
950644201 <Wichert Akkerman> I think we have reached the point were a single person can't keep in touch with
950644201 <Wichert Akkerman> everything that is happening in Debian anymore, and we'll need to see how
950644201 <Wichert Akkerman> to that influences the project. I think that his year we'll have to figure out
950644201 <Wichert Akkerman> how we should manage `projects' that focus more on specific areas of Debian,
950644202 <Wichert Akkerman> such as boot-floppies, quality control, documentation, archive management, etc.
950644215 <Wichert Akkerman> .
950644215 <Wichert Akkerman> This will without doubt create some struggles, since it means it will be harder
950644215 <Wichert Akkerman> for people to keep track of everything. Hopefully things like Debian Weekly News
950644215 <Wichert Akkerman> will help us there.
950644238 <Wichert Akkerman> (Done)
950644247 <Rob Levin> hehe, thank you for speeding the process along 8)
950644276 <Rob Levin> next question, and yes, candidates, please be aware pasting was not specifically excluded
950644303 <Rob Levin> okay, Joel was slated to take the next question first
950644306 <Jason Gunthorpe> encouraged, or we will run out of time :>
950644308 * Ben Collins prefers to wing it :)
950644336 * Matthew Vernon isn't running X or gpm :(
950644340 <Rob Levin> Matthew Vernon will go next
950644350 <Rob Levin> Matthew Vernon: it was a bit long, but he quit early
950644365 <Rob Levin> we'll exclude fast pasting for the rest of the debate
950644375 <Rob Levin> next question
950644381 <Rob Levin> Two sub-projects within Debian are aimed at developing ports of Debian to
950644381 <Rob Levin> the Hurd and BSD platforms. Some of the suggested plans would make these
950644383 <Rob Levin> ports considerably different from the Linux platform. How much leeway should
950644391 <Rob Levin> these ports have to deviate from the other platforms? Should Debian focus on
950644392 <Rob Levin> its core Linux distribution or try to spread to many OSs?
950644395 <Rob Levin> Matthew?
950644435 <Matthew Vernon> Well, as someone who works on -hurd, I may be a little biased in this regard, but I don't see a problem as such with non-Linux OSs being part of Debian
950644492 <Matthew Vernon> As long as those Oss are free, and they don't conflict with policy in too many ways (GNU/Hurd, for instance has shadowfs (or will do), which means it may not make a distinction between /bin and /usr/bin, for example)
950644547 <Matthew Vernon> I think it's a good thing, but clearly involves some problems that our current infrastructure doesn't deal with very well (Architecture: all becomes less accurate, and there are sometimes OS-specific bugs in packages, for instance).
950644578 <Matthew Vernon> If we can sort these issues out, then I think non-linux ports will make Debian more flexible, and more attractive to admins.
950644601 <Matthew Vernon> We should maintain our Linux focus for the forseeable future, however.
950644603 <Matthew Vernon> (done)
950644611 <Rob Levin> okay....
950644654 <Rob Levin> Ben Collins?
950644661 <Ben Collins> ok
950644684 <Ben Collins> I think the entire idea of providing alternate OS's is part of Debian's heritage...
950644712 <Ben Collins> Linux was in this state when Debian first started, so it is not outside of our beliefs, so long as we adhere to the freeness issues, which BSD and Hurd do...
950644781 <Ben Collins> Obviously the groups handling such ports should hold the responsibility of devising structure and maintainence to allow their OS's to be side-by-side on our archive with Linux...at the same time other developers should be willing to accept these changes and help the groups whenever possible with ideas and feedback
950644806 <Ben Collins> i think one of th biggest hurdles is the focus on intel-linux specific views
950644831 <Ben Collins> bugs and changes that affect only non-intel archs, and even more so, non-linux ports, are not viewed with as much priority
950644849 <Ben Collins> this is starting to subside to a great extent, but these views need to snuffed completely
950644852 <Ben Collins> (done)
950644899 <Rob Levin> Wichert?
950644913 <Rob Levin> before Wichert responds, process notes
950644919 <Wichert Akkerman> ?
950644930 <Rob Levin> (1)  in each case, we provide the same amount of time for a given question to everyone, where possible
950644947 <Rob Levin> I've only goofed on that once :)
950644960 <Rob Levin> you don't have to use all your time, and you don't get credit for unused time
950644979 <Rob Levin> (2) Wichert specifically asked for guidance on pasting, and I've told him, paste at typing speed
950644983 <Rob Levin> it seems reasonable
950644995 <Rob Levin> (3) We're going to tuck in and do two more questions after this one
950644998 <Rob Levin> Wichert: go ahead?
950645028 <Wichert Akkerman> This will differ per port; from what I know for the BSD port the strategy is to have a small BSD base system and use the FreeBSD Linux compatability support to run the normal GNU/Linux userland, which means we don't need to do a lot to support it.
950645049 <Wichert Akkerman> For the HURD we will probably see that more HURD-specific packages will arrive, which shouldn't be a problem.
950645066 <Wichert Akkerman> Some packages will be difficult though, since they will need major per-OS changes.
950645083 <Wichert Akkerman> I don't think that at the moment we really know how we should deal with those, so I think we will have to wait and see where it goes.
950645097 <Wichert Akkerman> As for infrastructure, as Matthew already said we will need to make some changes there.
950645114 <Wichert Akkerman> At the moment for example we don't have a per-architecture binary-all trees, which will be needed at some point.
950645145 <Wichert Akkerman> At the moment we're mostly Linux (and i386) focused, because that's what most of our developers use
950645169 <Wichert Akkerman> That might change in the future though, but we really can't predict that
950645176 <Wichert Akkerman> (Done)
950645181 <Rob Levin> okay
950645196 <Rob Levin> at this point in the debate, we'll preserve the original structure but tuck in a bit
950645213 <Rob Levin> we will ask two more formal questions, then have a 10 minute break, then ask a small selection of the informal questions
950645240 <Rob Levin> I'm going to skip ahead to a very popular question, and start with Wichert for this one
950645256 <Rob Levin> I want to end the last formal question with Matthew Vernon so Ben will ask that one
950645258 <Rob Levin> next question:
950645268 <Rob Levin> Do some people or group of people have influence or even power that is
950645268 <Rob Levin> outside the constitution? If so, is it good? bad? What should be
950645268 <Rob Levin> done about it, if anything? If these people don't exist, what do we do to
950645270 <Rob Levin> debunk the myth of the cabal?
950645294 <Rob Levin> Wichert?
950645300 <Wichert Akkerman> I'm here
950645330 <Wichert Akkerman> Of course nobody has any power that is outside the constitution.
950645364 <Wichert Akkerman> The `cabal'-theory suggests that a small group of people have (almost) complete power over Debian
950645392 <Wichert Akkerman> What actually happens is that a small group of people spent a *lot* of time on Debian
950645429 <Wichert Akkerman> As a result this group knows eachother very well, and is active any many areas of the project
950645461 <Wichert Akkerman> That doesn't mean that it's a closed group or that it is a powerhouse
950645502 <Wichert Akkerman> Anybody is free to join any area of the project, and we actively encourage people to do that
950645530 <Rob Levin> okay, we have hit time limit
950645545 <Wichert Akkerman> you mean my time is up?
950645554 <Rob Levin> yes, three minutes
950645556 <Wichert Akkerman> (Done) then :)
950645559 <Rob Levin> kay :)
950645578 <Rob Levin> Matthew?
950645580 <Matthew Vernon> Inevitably in an organisation the size of Debian, there will be people who meet with the DPL socially, and so might seem to be able to wield influence over them. In practice, it's a maturity issue for the DPL. I don't doubt that any of the candidates are sufficiently good people in this regard. As to the cabal, there are certainly some people who spend a lot of time on Debian, and/or a lot of time on irc, so may well reach a concensus amongst t
950645603 <Matthew Vernon> These others may consider that a "cabal" is running Debian.
950645653 <Matthew Vernon> Whether these people have any authority or not seems debatable. I don't see how one would quash the rumours of a cabal, though - many of the larger groups I'm involved in have a legendary cabal of some sorts.
950645673 <Matthew Vernon> In a group the size of Debian, accusations of clique-ism or cabals will always be present.
950645690 <Matthew Vernon> As long as there isn't really a cabal, then that's not a problem, IMO.
950645692 <Matthew Vernon> (done)
950645703 <Rob Levin> Ben Collins?
950645740 <Ben Collins> I think we all sort of agree on this issue...the theories and accusations will probably not completely go away, no matter what is done
950645766 <Ben Collins> on one had, the real-time interaction between developers on IRC< or in real-life, is a good thing...
950645785 <Ben Collins> things get done rather quickly, and with little or no fuss...which feeds progress
950645800 <Ben Collins> bogging things down with "politics" is usually not prefered
950645821 <Ben Collins> however, the downside is that this gives an air of "closed-door" policies
950645828 <Ben Collins> people feel left out...
950645850 <Ben Collins> so the end result will probably involve some sort of medium...
950645870 <Ben Collins> and each case is different on what this medium is, and thus subject to opinions
950645890 <Ben Collins> to be honest, I don't know how to keep this from reoccurring, but if I am DPL, I will work to reduce it
950645908 <Ben Collins> (done)
950645914 <Rob Levin> okay
950645939 <Rob Levin> the last question will be a combination of the last two listed formal questions
950645950 <Rob Levin> then we will break for 10, and come back with a sampling of informal questions
950645962 <Rob Levin> Ben will lead
950645975 <Rob Levin> The recent run of IPOs and startups has made alot of capital available to
950645975 <Rob Levin> the free software world. How should this relate to Debian and its ideals
950645976 <Rob Levin> of being a free and technicaly excellent distribution? How much influence
950645989 <Rob Levin> should commercial entities (particularly those doing development on our base)
950645989 <Rob Levin> have in the project?
950645991 <Rob Levin> and:
950645997 <Rob Levin> The Project has enjoyed a successful past but Linux is now nearly mainstream.
950645997 <Rob Levin> How will Debian react to this, and where is it headed in the future, 1, 5
950645999 <Rob Levin> and 10 years from now?
950646012 <Rob Levin> so the question comes down to:  how will Debian survive success? :)
950646015 <Rob Levin> Ben?
950646028 <Ben Collins> hmm..veryt broad question for 3 minutes :)
950646057 <Ben Collins> mainly I think we should just keep to our goals...provide a vast selection of software in the most stable format...
950646085 <Ben Collins> the minute we start to let commercial influences affect our decision making, is when Debian stops being Debian
950646130 <Ben Collins> we should simply recognize that we are more in the view of these entities, and not ignore them...just accept them as big groups of average users :)
950646139 <Ben Collins> (done)
950646149 <Rob Levin> okay.....Wichert?
950646160 <Wichert Akkerman> #include "Ben Collins's comments"
950646165 * Rob Levin grins
950646170 <Wichert Akkerman> we are already influenced by this
950646190 <Wichert Akkerman> we have seen people that want to become a Debian maintainer for the sole reason of being able to participate in an IPO
950646215 <Wichert Akkerman> We also benefit from it
950646234 <Wichert Akkerman> Without this huge interesting in Linux and capital becoming available we wouldn't have the resources we have now..
950646253 <Wichert Akkerman> VA wouldn't hire 2 Debian developers fulltime for example
950646280 <Wichert Akkerman> It also affects our developers, since some of then have benefited from their involvement in Linux or free software in general
950646295 <Wichert Akkerman> I don't think it has influenced or will influence Debian itself though
950646307 <Wichert Akkerman> we are still all about making a free operating system as an open project
950646311 <Wichert Akkerman> and I don't see that changing us
950646321 <Wichert Akkerman> (Done)
950646330 <Rob Levin> Matthew Vernon?
950646332 <Matthew Vernon> IMO, Debian will (and should) remain a volunteer organisation. That's the nature of what we are, and it's important. That way we can concentrate on making the best distribution, without worrying about commercial pressures.
950646378 <Matthew Vernon> To answer the question of how commercial entities should influence us - I don't think they should have more influence than normal users
950646437 <Matthew Vernon> I think the mainstream-ing (is that a word?) of Linux can only benefit us, in terms of attracting more competant developers (and hopefully money :) ) to the project
950646460 <Matthew Vernon> In 10 years time, I still see us as the best distribution in the World :)
950646465 <Matthew Vernon> (done)
950646471 <Rob Levin> fantastic
950646479 <Rob Levin> okay, we'll move on to the next stage
950646504 <Rob Levin> we break for up to 10 minutes

950647208 <Rob Levin> okay all....bearing in mind that at least one of our participants has time constraints (must leave in 15 minutes)
950647223 <Rob Levin> we're going to do two short time questions and then provide a brief summing-up
950647234 <Rob Levin> first, a KDE question:
950647243 <Rob Levin> Debian's current stance on KDE is to not include it.  The KDE
950647243 <Rob Levin> programmers and other distributions have no problem with the license
950647243 <Rob Levin> the way it is currently.  Should Debian change it's stance on the KD
950647246 <Rob Levin> licensing issue?
950647259 <Rob Levin> start with Matthew Vernon
950647266 <Matthew Vernon> That's a short question? :)
950647268 <Rob Levin> (1.5 minutes)
950647271 <Rob Levin> yes :)
950647277 <Rob Levin> try to be brief :)
950647291 <Matthew Vernon> Well, AIUI, the problem is that some KDE stuff includes GPL code, yet the QPL isn't GPL-compatible
950647306 <Matthew Vernon> There's been much discussion of this on -legal
950647353 <Ben Collins> ok, back
950647356 <Matthew Vernon> My stance is that if it's OK to include it, we should include it. If it's not, then we shouldn't. Simple as that. I leave the licence experts to decide which is the case. What other distros do isn't relevant - we must do what is right, IMHO
950647361 <Matthew Vernon> (done)
950647375 <Rob Levin> wonderful
950647384 <Rob Levin> Wichert?
950647395 <Wichert Akkerman> I can't do anything but agree
950647415 <Rob Levin> any further comments?
950647427 <Wichert Akkerman> Debian is all about free software, and we should not allow something like this to slip by
950647439 <Wichert Akkerman> if possible we should help them resolve these issues so everyone will benefit
950647461 <Wichert Akkerman> but it is a real problem at the moment
950647463 <Wichert Akkerman> (Done)
950647470 <Rob Levin> Ben Collins?
950647511 <Ben Collins> I think this is a real legal issue..., one which can't be decided on opinion alone
950647552 <Ben Collins> I agree with matthew and wichert...but the solution isn't very clear
950647582 <Ben Collins> and I am no lawyer :)
950647584 <Ben Collins> (done)
950647605 <Rob Levin> okay....now, the last question (again, sorry to all about time constraints) is a combination of  two people's questions
950647610 <Rob Levin> What will you do to accelerate Debian's release cycle?
950647613 <Rob Levin> and:
950647623 <Rob Levin>         With debians growth and nearly 5000 packages it has become clear that it has
950647623 <Rob Levin> outgrown the current package system. Also with the slow release cycles it seems
950647623 <Rob Levin> that there are only "broken" and "obsolete" distributions.  My question then,  is
950647629 <Rob Levin> if you would like to instate package pools (described at
950647630 <Rob Levin> https://lists.debian.org/debian-project/1999/10/msg00052.html).  And if not,  what other
950647630 <Rob Levin> alternatives do you see fit?
950647645 <Rob Levin> we'll start with Matthew
950647660 <Rob Levin> (2 minute question)
950647752 <Matthew Vernon> I've not looked at package pools in great detail (and dont' have time to do so in 2 minutes). As to release cycles, I think we need to allow less time between one release and the next freeze - so we can then have more frequent releases, without shortening the freeze time
950647797 <Matthew Vernon> Shorter times 'tween release and next freeze would get less bugs into the distro. With more attention payed to QA, we could get many people working specifically on the release targets for the next release to.
950647871 <Matthew Vernon> And less new things in a release would mean less bugs too - we have to get a balence between very frequent releases with very little new things in (one extreme which CD vendors will hate), and infrequent releases (with the previous distro rather out-of-date).
950647884 <Rob Levin> okay
950647894 <Matthew Vernon> At the moment, the balence seems wrong to me, and I think a shorter release cycle would improve this.
950647896 <Matthew Vernon> (done)
950647911 <Rob Levin> Ben Collins?
950647954 <Ben Collins> I see the package pool structure as an enabling-technology (to coin a suit buzz-word, even though I hate them :), and faster releases as a result
950647975 <Ben Collins> how we achieve this is going to depend more on the inbetween, where we decide how to leverage this new structure
950648031 <Ben Collins> as most know, Guy decided that package-pool was the way to head, and Jason and I have been working on trying to implent it using LDAP as the core repository...so things are progrws (slowly because of the current release taking time)
950648054 <Ben Collins> after the pool is in place, we will need the ideas and work of other developers to leverage it
950648074 <Ben Collins> s/progrws/progressing/
950648075 <Ben Collins> (done)
950648081 <Rob Levin> Wichert?
950648111 <Wichert Akkerman> as ben said work is already in progress on package pools, which seem like a really good idea to make it easier to play around with the release process
950648148 <Wichert Akkerman> our release manager already stated he would like to freeze quicker (iirc he mentioned 3 months after the release), which should help as well
950648197 <Wichert Akkerman> hopefully the combination of the possibilities and flexibility that package pools provide and a faster release cycle should  produce a better and more up to date distribution
950648225 <Wichert Akkerman> not all the focus needs to go to packaging and package systems though..
950648238 <Wichert Akkerman> we need to shift the focus towards other areas such as active QA and documentation
950648255 <Wichert Akkerman> those are becoming more and more important, esp. with our growing userbase
950648256 <Wichert Akkerman> (Done)
950648277 <Rob Levin> okay....now, with the permission of our candidates, we'll do one minute summaries of everybody's broad goals and views
950648295 <Rob Levin> I'm going to just pick somebody to start, at this point it's hard to see that we've created any patterns :)
950648305 <Rob Levin> Ben Collins:
950648327 <Ben Collins> ok
950648359 <Ben Collins> I hope that I have gotten the point across that I am more interested in internal Debian workings, than on outward views on Debian by others...
950648383 <Ben Collins> I say that because I am a firm believer that you cannot change the way people view you by changing them, but more so by changing what you do...
950648398 <Ben Collins> if we concentrate on our work...it will pay off
950648417 <Ben Collins> and others will recognize what we have and will do
950648418 <Ben Collins> (done)
950648436 <Rob Levin>  thank you Ben, and thanks for living through being the first :)
950648439 <Rob Levin> Wichert:
950648449 <Wichert Akkerman> euh, okay
950648461 <Ben Collins> :)
950648490 <Wichert Akkerman> Over the past year I've learned a lot about how Debian works, and where it needs some improvement
950648537 <Wichert Akkerman> hmm
950648540 <Wichert Akkerman> this is hard :)
950648558 <Wichert Akkerman> I think we'll need to realize that nothing everything is about producing packages
950648569 <Wichert Akkerman> and I'ld like to help Debian grow in other areas
950648583 <Wichert Akkerman> we already have a lot of people working on packages and technical issues, and that seems to be going quite well
950648600 <Wichert Akkerman> (Done)
950648610 * Rob Levin apologizes to wichert for pinging at a disconcerting moment
950648615 <Rob Levin> Matthew?
950648618 <Matthew Vernon> I want to keep Debian the best technically. At the moment this means dealing with the great expansion of Debian (which is a good thing, but brings its own problems). Communication seems to be the thing, and encouraging developers to consider things such as QA and documentation as well as packaging. I've experience of dealing with disparate groups of people such that they can work cohesively together,
950648651 <Matthew Vernon> particularly as various bits of debian begin to be run by groups of people who may not be involved in the other groups running bits of debian (if that makes any sense).
950648689 <Matthew Vernon> Beyond that, Can I just encourage everyone to actually vote? turnout always seems rather small for DPL elections.
950648692 <Matthew Vernon> (done)
950648699 <Rob Levin> okay, before everyone leaves :)
950648706 <Rob Levin> please remember, look to your system security
950648706 <Wichert Akkerman> `always'.. we only have had 1 election so far :)
950648722 <Rob Levin> debates and forums are opportunities for immature people to poke at systems
950648727 <Rob Levin> now
950648742 <Rob Levin> Thank you  very much to our candidates for spending time with us, in a process that is always difficult at best
950648743 <Ben Collins> Rob: thanks for moderating...you did a good job, IMO :)
950648748 <Rob Levin> thank you :)
950648754 <Matthew Vernon> Seconded
950648754 <Wichert Akkerman> and good luck to all the candidates
950648758 <Rob Levin> everyone, please do get out and vote :)
950648761 <Ben Collins> same to all of you :)
950648773 <Rob Levin> voting is your key to getting what you need out of the Debian leadership and structure
950648784 <Rob Levin> thanks again to everyone for attending, and we'll post as soon as we process!
950648792 * Ben Collins shakes hands and kisses baby's in that candidate "spreading good cheer" sort of way
950648795 <Wichert Akkerman> as well as talking to the candidates or other people involved
950648797 <Rob Levin> this ends the debate
