#use wml::debian::template title="Platform for Stefano Zacchiroli" BARETITLE="true" NOHEADER="true"
#include "$(ENGLISHDIR)/vote/style.inc"

{#style#:
<STYLE type="text/css">
.li-itemize{margin:1ex 0ex;}
.li-enumerate{margin:1ex 0ex;}
.dd-description{margin:0ex 0ex 1ex 4ex;}
.dt-description{margin:0ex;}
.toc{list-style:none;}
.thefootnotes{text-align:left;margin:0ex;}
.dt-thefootnotes{margin:0em;}
.dd-thefootnotes{margin:0em 0em 0em 2em;}
.footnoterule{margin:1em auto 1em 0px;width:50%;}
.caption{padding-left:2ex; padding-right:2ex; margin-left:auto; margin-right:auto}
.title{margin:2ex auto;text-align:center}
.center{text-align:center;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;}
.flushleft{text-align:left;margin-left:0ex;margin-right:auto;}
.flushright{text-align:right;margin-left:auto;margin-right:0ex;}
DIV TABLE{margin-left:inherit;margin-right:inherit;}
PRE{text-align:left;margin-left:0ex;margin-right:auto;}
BLOCKQUOTE{margin-left:4ex;margin-right:4ex;text-align:left;}
TD P{margin:0px;}
.boxed{border:1px solid black}
.textboxed{border:1px solid black}
.vbar{border:none;width:2px;background-color:black;}
.hbar{border:none;height:2px;width:100%;background-color:black;}
.hfill{border:none;height:1px;width:200%;background-color:black;}
.vdisplay{border-collapse:separate;border-spacing:2px;width:auto; empty-cells:show; border:2px solid red;}
.vdcell{white-space:nowrap;padding:0px;width:auto; border:2px solid green;}
.display{border-collapse:separate;border-spacing:2px;width:auto; border:none;}
.dcell{white-space:nowrap;padding:0px;width:auto; border:none;}
.dcenter{margin:0ex auto;}
.vdcenter{border:solid #FF8000 2px; margin:0ex auto;}
.minipage{text-align:left; margin-left:0em; margin-right:auto;}
.marginpar{border:solid thin black; width:20%; text-align:left;}
.marginparleft{float:left; margin-left:0ex; margin-right:1ex;}
.marginparright{float:right; margin-left:1ex; margin-right:0ex;}
.theorem{text-align:left;margin:1ex auto 1ex 0ex;}
.part{margin:2ex auto;text-align:center}
.rfloat{float:right;}
body{font-family: sans-serif;
font-size: medium;
}
h1, h2, h3, h4{font-weight: normal;
}
h1{font-size: 140%;}
h2{font-size: 130%;
border-bottom: solid 1pt;
}
h3{font-size: 115%;}
h4{font-size: 105%;}
.paragraph{font-size: 105%;
font-weight: normal;
/* text-decoration: underline; */
}
.alphaenum ol{list-style-type: lower-alpha;
}
.mantra{border: solid;
border-width: 1px;
border-color: #aaa;
background: #eee;
margin: 2pt;
margin-left: 8%;
margin-right: 8%;
padding: 2pt;
}
.summary{border: solid;
border-width: 1px;
border-color: #aaa;
background: #eee;
margin: 2pt;
padding: 2pt;
}
a{text-decoration: none;}
a:hover{text-decoration: underline;}
.mini {font-size:.6em}
</STYLE>
:##}

<!--HEVEA command line is: /usr/bin/hevea -fix platform.tex -->
<!--CUT DEF section 1 --><TABLE CLASS="title"><TR><TD><H1 CLASS="titlemain">DPL platform</H1><H3 CLASS="titlerest">Stefano Zacchiroli<BR>
 <A HREF="mailto:zack@debian.org"><TT>zack@debian.org</TT></A><BR>
 <A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack"><TT>http://upsilon.cc/~zack</TT></A></H3></TD></TR>
</TABLE><DIV CLASS="center">
version <TT>1.0</TT>
</DIV><p class="mini">[ Other formats available:
<A HREF="http://www.upsilon.cc/~zack/hacking/debian/dpl-2009/platform.html">.html</A>,
<A HREF="http://www.upsilon.cc/~zack/hacking/debian/dpl-2009/platform.pdf">.pdf</A>,
<A HREF="http://www.upsilon.cc/~zack/hacking/debian/dpl-2009/platform.txt">.txt</A>. ]</p><!--TOC section Executive summary-->
<H2 CLASS="section"><!--SEC ANCHOR -->Executive summary</H2><!--SEC END --><P>Hi, I'm <A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack">Stefano Zacchiroli</A>--mostly
known as <EM>Zack</EM>--and I'm running for DPL.
</P><DIV CLASS="summary">
The <B>main points</B> of my platform are as follows:
<UL CLASS="itemize"><LI CLASS="li-itemize"> <I>I intend to be a </I><I><EM>present</EM></I><I> DPL, both
in discussions and as the responsible of the project agenda.</I></LI><LI CLASS="li-itemize"><I>I will provide a constant stream of DPL
activity news, to be frozen and posted </I><I><EM>monthly</EM></I><I> to
</I><I><TT>d-d-a</TT></I><I>.</I></LI><LI CLASS="li-itemize"><I>To resolve the impasse of vocal
minorities, I will apply mechanisms that make rough </I><I><EM>consensus</EM></I><I>
emerge when it exists.</I></LI><LI CLASS="li-itemize"><I>I will push for more </I><I><EM>gradual</EM></I><I> and
</I><I><EM>rewarding</EM></I><I> access paths to Debian.</I></LI><LI CLASS="li-itemize"><I>I will push to diminish </I><I><EM>strong package
ownership</EM></I><I> when it conflicts with package quality.</I></LI><LI CLASS="li-itemize"><I>I will do my best to support, with money
and other resources, contributors get-togethers.</I></LI></UL></DIV><P>The reminder of the platform provides background information about me
(Section <A HREF="#sec:intro">1</A>), describes the above points in more detail
(Section <A HREF="#sec:goals">2</A>), and highlights more specific plans for my
term (Section <A HREF="#sec:itches">2.3</A>).</P><!--TOC section Introduction-->
<H2 CLASS="section"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc1">1</A>  Introduction</H2><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:intro"></A></P><!--TOC subsection Who am I-->
<H3 CLASS="subsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc2">1.1</A>  Who am I</H3><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:aboutme"></A></P><P>I became a Debian Developer (DD) in March 2001, shortly after the
current NM process was introduced. My Debian involvement has been
through two distinct phases. In the first one I only cared about my
packages, ignoring the community: no IRC, no <TT>-devel</TT>
subscription, etc. Then, at LinuxTag 2004, I discovered Debian as a
<EM>community</EM> and got fascinated by it, gradually increasing my
involvement in the project.</P><P>Technically, my main activities during all these years have been:
</P><DL CLASS="description"><DT CLASS="dt-description">
<B>PTS</B></DT><DD CLASS="dd-description"> I've been co-maintaining the
<A HREF="http://packages.qa.debian.org">Package Tracking System (PTS)</A>
for the past 3-4 years, contributing day to day maintenance as well
as
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/blog/posts/2008/11/PTS_SOAP_interface/">more</A>
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/blog/posts/2008/08/improved_integration_among_PTS_and_Lintian/">significant</A>
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/blog/posts/2008/01/pts_dehs_integration/">changes</A>. Details
are available <A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/tags/qa/">on my blog</A>.</DD><DT CLASS="dt-description"><B>Vcs-* fields</B></DT><DD CLASS="dd-description"> I've
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/blog/posts/2006/09/xs-x-vcs-XXX/">made</A>
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/blog/posts/2006/10/xs-vcs-XXX_almost_there/">popular</A>
the notion of VCS (Version Control System) fields in <TT>debian/control</TT>, and I wrote
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/blog/posts/2007/08/debcheckout/"><TT>debcheckout</TT></A>.</DD><DT CLASS="dt-description"><B>Quality Assurance</B></DT><DD CLASS="dd-description"> ...more generally, I've joined the
<A HREF="http://qa.debian.org/">QA</A> team because I
enjoy thinking of the project as a whole and looking for new
solutions
(e.g. <A HREF="http://wiki.debian.org/UltimateDebianDatabase">UDD</A>) to
our persisting problems.</DD><DT CLASS="dt-description"><B>OCaml</B></DT><DD CLASS="dd-description"> Better support for the
<A HREF="http://caml.inria.fr">OCaml</A> programming language was my
motivation to join the project. I've contributed forming the
<A HREF="http://wiki.debian.org/Teams/OCamlTaskForce">Debian OCaml
Task Force</A> in which I've ranged from the newbie, to leading
activities. The team nowadays maintains more than
<A HREF="http://pkg-ocaml-maint.alioth.debian.org/debian-ocaml-status.html">120
source packages</A> with
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/stuff/ocaml-debian-deps.pdf">insanely
intricate inter-dependencies</A>, and complex
<A HREF="http://glondu.net/debian/ocaml_transition_monitor.html">transition</A>
needs.</DD><DT CLASS="dt-description"><B>Packaging</B></DT><DD CLASS="dd-description"> Obviously, I've maintained (and continue to maintain)
<A HREF="http://qa.debian.org/developer.php?login=zack@debian.org">several
packages</A>. Beside OCaml-related packages, I'm proud of
contributions to
<A HREF="http://packages.debian.org/sid/devscripts"><TT>devscripts</TT></A>,
<A HREF="http://packages.debian.org/sid/vim"><TT>vim</TT></A> (in spite of
my recent
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/blog/posts/2008/10/from_Vim_to_Emacs_-_part_1/">betrayal</A>
<TT>:-)</TT>, and
<A HREF="http://packages.debian.org/sid/python-debian"><TT>python-debian</TT></A>.</DD></DL><P>Believing in the community as the real strength of Debian, I'm a
regular attendee of <A HREF="http://www.debconf.org/">DebConf</A> and, time
permitting, of any other face to face meetings, like the
<A HREF="http://wiki.debian.org/DebianQAExtremadura2008?action=fullsearch&amp;context=180&amp;value=debian+extremadura&amp;titlesearch=Titles">Extremadura
work ones</A>.</P><P>In real life, I'm <A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/research/">a computer
science researcher</A>, currently working as a post-doc in the
<A HREF="http://www.pps.jussieu.fr">PPS</A> laboratory,
<A HREF="http://www.univ-paris-diderot.fr">University Paris
Diderot</A>. This laboratory is somewhat of a Debian contributors nest
of the French Debian community; our coffee breaks frequently turn into
exciting Debian discussions. I mainly work on the
<A HREF="http://www.mancoosi.org">Mancoosi</A> project, where we apply
techniques such as formal methods to the study of FOSS
distributions, including but not limited to Debian, and to the
improvement of upgrade planning algorithms. Mancoosi is the
successor of <A HREF="http://www.edos-project.org">EDOS</A>, which was the
source of various tools used for Debian QA, like
<A HREF="http://packages.debian.org/sid/edos-debcheck"><TT>edos-debcheck</TT></A>,
running periodically at
<A HREF="http://edos.debian.net"><TT>edos.debian.net</TT></A>.</P><!--TOC subsection Why I am running for DPL-->
<H3 CLASS="subsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc3">1.2</A>  Why I am running for DPL</H3><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:whyrunning"></A></P><P>Being the DPL is about two distinct aspects: the institutional role
and a set of extra goals the prospective DPL wants to pursue during
the term. This distinction matters.</P><P>The institutional role is
<A HREF="http://www.debian.org/devel/constitution#5">described in our
constitution</A> and is about three tasks: ordinary and extraordinary
decision making, public relations with the outside world, and leading
discussions inside the project.</P><P>My personal view of why we need a DPL builds on the observation that
we operate as a do-ocracy: anyone willing to do things can decide what
and how they are done, and no one can be forced to do anything. Given
our size, we have the irresistible tendency of turning into an
<EM>imperfect</EM> do-ocracy:
</P><DIV CLASS="alphaenum">
<OL CLASS="enumerate"><LI CLASS="li-enumerate"> 
access restrictions get added to inhibit people doing
potentially dangerous actions;
</LI><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">non-exciting tasks can rot because nobody is motivated enough to
take care of them;
</LI><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">those in acquired positions may neglect their duties and lower
the quality of the service they offer, because they do not admit
they are no longer fit for the task.
</LI></OL>
</DIV><P>
The DPL has the duty, for a <EM>limited amount of time</EM>, to mitigate
the imperfections of our do-ocracy:
</P><DIV CLASS="alphaenum">
<OL CLASS="enumerate"><LI CLASS="li-enumerate"> 
spot overly constraining access restrictions which inhibit
capable people to work, inducing inefficiencies and frustration;
</LI><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">find people willing to do non-exciting tasks for the project's
global good (making sure they get credit for it);
</LI><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">assign people to key positions to improve service quality inside
and outside the project.
</LI></OL>
</DIV><P>
The reward is the occasion to push for project-wide improvements by
the only virtue of occupying the DPL position.</P><P>I want to challenge myself to be a transparent and present DPL, and to
improve the mechanisms of our project. That is why I'm running for
DPL. (Actually, I've also been <EM>asked</EM> by some of you to
run, so the blame for bothering you in reading all this does not
fall exclusively on me <TT>:-)</TT></P><!--TOC section My goals-->
<H2 CLASS="section"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc4">2</A>  My goals</H2><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:goals"></A></P><P>DPL institutional tasks deal with decision-making in situations that
are, in general, unknown <EM>a priori</EM>. Hence, I present my goals as
follows.
</P><UL CLASS="itemize"><LI CLASS="li-itemize">
First I give my <EM>vision</EM> encompassing key themes of Debian
"politics". This, I believe, is the only way to give a rough idea
of how I can react to unforeseeable scenarios.</LI><LI CLASS="li-itemize">Then I present the <EM>approach</EM> I intend to apply in carrying
on DPL institutional tasks.</LI><LI CLASS="li-itemize">Finally I list some specific projects I intend to pursue as DPL.
</LI></UL><!--TOC subsection Vision-->
<H3 CLASS="subsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc5">2.1</A>  Vision</H3><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:vision"></A></P><!--TOC paragraph Non-DD contributors-->
<H5 CLASS="paragraph"><!--SEC ANCHOR -->Non-DD contributors</H5><!--SEC END --><P>
The introduction of <A HREF="http://wiki.debian.org/DebianMaintainer">DMs</A>
(Debian Maintainers) has been a fortunate event for Debian. Some
people argue that it has opened up our archive to packages of
sub-standard quality. That might be true, but we also have (plenty of)
sub-standard packages maintained by full-fledged maintainers who have
lost their interest in Debian. The solution to both is <EM>more QA</EM>.</P><P>Through the DM process, many enthusiastic people have found their way
into Debian, increasing our work force. In addition, the DM process
induces a <EM>more controlled process</EM> to become a full-fledged DD,
with greater insurance of serious commitment to Debian, and experience
levels. All in all, the DM process is a more fine-grained access path
to Debian than what we had before it, which enables us to give back to
our contributors <EM>gradually</EM> through recognition. Contributing to
Debian is no longer all-or-nothing, it is now way less frustrating for
packagers, who previously might have turned their efforts to other
projects.</P><P>We need to generalize the lessons learned from the DM process. We have
a lot of potential valuable contributors out there. They just need
better documentation about <EM>how</EM> to join. They simply demand
something in exchange, to be proud of, that acknowledges their
efforts. I do not have preconceptions on the different ways of
achieving this (e.g., ACLs vs linearly increasing privileges), but we
need to go in that direction. In doing so, we should also relax our
implicit assumptions that <EM>only</EM> technical abilities matter in
Debian. The truly "Universal Operating System" is <EM>mainly</EM>, not
only, made of software; it is also made of translations, graphics,
musics, etc.</P><DIV CLASS="mantra">
<DIV CLASS="center"><I>I will push for more </I><I><EM>gradual</EM></I><I> and
</I><I><EM>rewarding</EM></I><I> access paths to Debian.</I></DIV>
</DIV><!--TOC paragraph Collaborative maintenance-->
<H5 CLASS="paragraph"><!--SEC ANCHOR -->Collaborative maintenance</H5><!--SEC END --><P>
The introduction of the <TT>Uploaders:</TT> field is another example of
a fortunate development in Debian. While it can, in principle, form
teams of people with no clear responsibility for specific tasks, on
average it works very well. It creates efficient technical spaces for
collaboration on specific topics, and it also scales through
(re)creating organizational structures with specific position and
task-assignments.</P><P>Collaborative maintenance should not be mandatory (we do have several
very efficient one-man-band developers), but should be our
default. Packaging newbies should start in collaborative maintenance
teams and gain experience there. Team member feedback can then be
useful to take some of the weight off the shoulders of the AMs
(Application Managers). Similarly, we should not accept one-man-band
maintenance when it comes with de facto unmaintained packages (to be
identified with
<A HREF="http://wiki.debian.org/qa.debian.org/bapase">suitable QA
activities</A>). In those cases, we should suggest--or even force if
needed--collaborative maintenance. It can provide a more acceptable
exit strategy than public, yet useless, shaming.</P><DIV CLASS="mantra">
<DIV CLASS="center"><I>I will push to diminish </I><I><EM>strong package
ownership</EM></I><I> when it conflicts with package quality.</I></DIV>
</DIV><!--TOC paragraph Vocal minorities-->
<H5 CLASS="paragraph"><!--SEC ANCHOR -->Vocal minorities</H5><!--SEC END --><P>
Our mailing lists have substantially improved over the last 5
years. Every now and then though, they get polluted by (apparently)
very vocal minorities capable of polarizing discussions, which is
neither productive, nor fun. Given how we are attached to our
community, we sometime take part in such discussions, inevitably
burning out (how frequent are temporary VAC messages due to this? Too
much). My take: </P><BLOCKQUOTE CLASS="quote"> <p><I>Freedom of speech: good.<BR>
Vocal
minorities holding hostage the silent majorities: bad.</I></p></BLOCKQUOTE><P>While we should consider--and have actually applied in the
past--moderation measures to counter repeated community disrupting
behaviors, we cannot take the risk of applying them only on the
<EM>assumption</EM> that the posters actually are a vocal minority.
Even though there are no optimal solutions for this kind of problems,
technical devices can help. One such device I want to put into use are
<A HREF="http://master.debian.org/~jeroen/polls/">polls</A>, as proposed by
Jeroen van Wolffelaar and other years ago. The intention is to enable
every DD to start mail-based, authenticated polls <EM>à la</EM>
<TT>devotee</TT>.</P><P>Polls can give a reasonable idea where the community stands, without
having to engage the whole GR (General Resolution) machinery. A poll
can either make it clear to participants in discussions (or flame
fests) that they are in disagreement with the rest of the project and
better stop beating the dying horse, or indicate that they are on the
right path.</P><DIV CLASS="mantra">
<DIV CLASS="center"><I>To resolve the impasse of vocal
minorities, I will apply mechanisms that make rough </I><I><EM>consensus</EM></I><I>
emerge when it exists.</I></DIV>
</DIV><!--TOC paragraph Face-to-face meetings-->
<H5 CLASS="paragraph"><!--SEC ANCHOR -->Face-to-face meetings</H5><!--SEC END --><P>
Meetings are essential to improve the quality of collaboration within
the project, no matter how good we are in communicating digitally. Get
together face to face, hack for hours, do stuff together, and get back
home. The day after, your remote collaboration will be better.</P><P>Helping the organization of meetings is a wonderful way of spending
Debian money or other investing resources, such as specifically
appointed people. Luckily we do have
<A HREF="http://www.debconf.org">DebConf</A>, which is organized by a very
efficient specific team. Nevertheless it should not be the only
get-together, and we should push more for local meetings, employing
our resources for that. I see as perfectly reasonable supporting
economically the trips of active contributors when that will make
possible joining others to work on specific topics.</P><P>A simple metric for deciding when to do that and when not, beside the
required amount of money, can be the number <I>x</I> of other developers
asking for that. If and <EM>when</EM> money will become an issue, I do
not see any showstopper in organizing specific sponsoring campaigns.</P><DIV CLASS="mantra">
<DIV CLASS="center"><I>I will do my best to support, with money
and other resources, contributors get-togethers.</I></DIV>
</DIV><!--TOC paragraph Derivatives-->
<H5 CLASS="paragraph"><!--SEC ANCHOR -->Derivatives</H5><!--SEC END --><P>
We are part of the FOSS ecosystem, in which patches flow both
downstream and upstream. We
<A HREF="http://www.debian.org/social_contract">have promised</A> to give
back to the free software community, yet sometimes we fail to do
so. Initiatives like the recent
<A HREF="http://patch-tracking.debian.net">patch tracker</A> by Sean Finney
are a way to ensure that all our changes are visible both to downstream and
upstream.</P><P>Our derived distributions (AKA <EM>derivatives</EM>) have us as theirs
upstream, and are in a similar situation. We cannot <EM>force</EM>
them to give back to us, because our promises are not necessarily
theirs, still we should:
</P><OL CLASS="enumerate"><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">
be exemplar in our giving back practices, for example by
tracking publicly our efforts in sending patches upstream;</LI><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">make as easy as possible to give back to us, for example by
participating in cross-distribution initiatives which make
maintainers know each other and share distributed VCSs.
</LI></OL><P>
Doing both will strengthen our give back <EM>requests</EM> to
derivatives that we should not stop posing.</P><!--TOC subsection DPL <-> project interaction-->
<H3 CLASS="subsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc6">2.2</A>  DPL <-> project interaction</H3><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:dpl-project"></A></P><!--TOC subsubsection Being present-->
<H4 CLASS="subsubsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc7">2.2.1</A>  Being present</H4><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:presence"></A></P><P>As a DD, I have often suffered from a perceived DPL "absence".
Maybe it was just me not being pro-active enough to ping the DPL on
IRC or email and ask, but I consider it a DPL duty to communicate his
or her presence. That comes in two forms: one is to <B>lead
discussions</B> among developers, as
<A HREF="http://www.debian.org/devel/constitution#5">prescribed in the
constitution</A>, something I have rarely seen. While we do not want
that by default (no need for a "post-in-every-thread" DPL), I will
try to be present in "hot" discussions (vague on purpose) which
concern the organization and the big picture of the project. I will
also encourage seeking the DPL opinion on specific topics, by pinging
me explicitly.</P><P>The DPL opinion can also be a reasonable first attempt to solve a
conflict; if it fails, we do have other mechanisms to settle it. In
this respect, I believe my personal qualities can be useful for the
project: I am thoughtful, listen to others, and open to be convinced
by good arguments.</P><P>More generally, managing the <B>project agenda</B> is something that
should be expected from the DPL. Managing the agenda means having a
road map of topics the project should <EM>consider</EM> with in some
time frame. The
<A HREF="http://wiki.debian.org/DiscussionsAfterLenny">DiscussionsAfterLenny</A>
page is an example of such need. The DPL should ensure the project has
similar agendas to avoid forgetting about important topics to remember
them, say, just before a release.</P><P>Management also means keeping track of what happened. The
<A HREF="http://dep.debian.net/deps/dep0/">DEP proposal</A>--started by
myself, <A HREF="http://chistera.yi.org/~adeodato/blog/">Adeodato Simó</A>,
and <A HREF="http://liw.iki.fi/liw/">Lars Wirzenius</A>--was an attempt to
deliver a device to achieve that: no excessive extra burden induced,
but a workflow to remember what is the status of "large"
project-changing proposals.</P><P>We should expect the DPL to take care of "orphaned" DEPs by
reassigning or driving them in first person. DEPs have not taken off
due to the lack of some technical bits and of representative
examples. I will ensure that we give a try to DEPs, or similar
devices, to check whether we can finally have a sane choice between
hyper-formal decisions by the mean of GRs and folklore decisions which
too often resemble no decisions at all.</P><DIV CLASS="mantra">
<DIV CLASS="center"><I>I intend to be a </I><I><EM>present</EM></I><I> DPL, both
in discussions and as the responsible of the project agenda.</I></DIV>
</DIV><!--TOC subsubsection Transparency-->
<H4 CLASS="subsubsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc8">2.2.2</A>  Transparency</H4><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:transparency"></A></P><P>Another way for a DPL to be present is to disclose <EM>periodically</EM>
what she or he is doing; let's call it "transparency". Recently we
have got better, but only 4 or 5 "bits from ..." mails during a
DPL term is still too little for a role which is meant to represent
such a big and diverse project.</P><P>I'm sure that a given number of DPL activities are not suitable for
disclosure, whether they are personal to some, plain boring, or
otherwise should not be archived forever on the Web. I'm also aware
that writing from scratch a "bits from DPL" mail can be time
consuming and possibly intimidating.</P><P>The solution I will implement is to have some constant <B>feed of
DPL activity news</B>. "Feed" as a concept, the implementation can
vary: an IRC channel, blogging or micro-blogging, a wiki page
<TT>BitsFromTheDPL</TT> handled <EM>à la</EM>
<A HREF="http://wiki.debian.org/DeveloperNews"><TT>DeveloperNews</TT></A>,
posts to <TT>-private</TT> for sensitive material, etc. No feed
activity will mean no DPL activity and the right for DDs to complain
and demand explanation. I believe that activities which are not yet
ready to be disclosed <EM>at all</EM>, not even by censoring or
rewording details, are scarce enough <EM>not</EM> to imply empty feeds.</P><P>The resulting feed will then be frozen each month and posted to
<TT>d-d-a</TT>. If I fail to post and freeze twice, I will admit my
failure by explaining the reasons and seeking opinions on how to
continue the term (e.g., using a poll, which can also contain an
option "resign, you do not communicate enough").</P><DIV CLASS="mantra">
<DIV CLASS="center"><I>I will provide a constant stream of DPL
activity news, to be frozen and posted </I><I><EM>monthly</EM></I><I> to
</I><I><TT>d-d-a</TT></I><I>.</I></DIV>
</DIV><!--TOC subsubsection (no) DPL board-->
<H4 CLASS="subsubsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc9">2.2.3</A>  (no) DPL board</H4><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:dpl-board"></A></P><P>According to past DPLs, carrying over the DPL burden all alone
<EM>is</EM> daunting. To counter that, I will be constantly seeking
advice from others, on the basis of their project expertise. I do not
however believe in the utility of a <B>DPL board</B>: the DPL term
is too short to spend time with extra coordination hops, so I will not
have a DPL board. For more specific task assignment we do have
delegates, which is more than enough.</P><P>However, as life goes, the DPL is in this sense a single point of
failure, and I will be looking for a <B>2IC</B> (second in charge,
vice-leader). The duties of the 2IC will be: DPL backup (in case of
unexpected absences), and help in communicating outside and inside the
project (e.g., for the news feed). The 2IC will be appointed with an
ordinary, term-limited, delegation. As the DPL, I will take full
responsibility for 2IC actions.</P><DIV CLASS="mantra">
<DIV CLASS="center"><I>I will not have a DPL board; I will rather look for a 2IC for
backup and communication.</I></DIV>
</DIV><!--TOC subsection Specific plans-->
<H3 CLASS="subsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc10">2.3</A>  Specific plans</H3><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:itches"></A></P><!--TOC subsubsection Clarify delegates-->
<H4 CLASS="subsubsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc11">2.3.1</A>  Clarify delegates</H4><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:delegates"></A></P><P>Remember: TINC (there is no cabal). Good news. Then:
</P><OL CLASS="enumerate"><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">
all current
<A HREF="http://www.debian.org/devel/constitution#8">delegates</A> should
be clearly stated at
<A HREF="http://www.debian.org/intro/organization">our organization
page</A> with reference to the delegation mail;</LI><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">all people in core teams which predate widespread use of
delegation should be officially delegated. This will avoid
disparities between "young" team members who are delegates and
"old" team members who live in an unclear limbo.
</LI></OL><!--TOC subsubsection The website issue-->
<H4 CLASS="subsubsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc12">2.3.2</A>  The website issue</H4><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:website"></A></P><P>We all want a
<A HREF="http://www.debian.org/vote/2007/platforms/sho">sexier website</A>,
i.e., a website where people can find what they look for, and which
does not make us look like Debian is an operating system of the
1980s. While work on the issue
<A HREF="http://wiki.debian.org/DebianWebsiteDiscussion">has been going
on</A> in the WWW team, we have not delivered visible improvements yet.</P><P>I intend to help the WWW team in order to solve the main issues within
the term. While it will be pointless to set the precise technical
goals in a platform, my intended course of actions will be as
follows. All steps are meant to be performed in agreement with the WWW
team.
</P><OL CLASS="enumerate"><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">
Establish the minimal requirements for an improved website in
terms of: accessibility, site structure, team work flow. Make those
requirements <EM>public</EM> as well as a detailed plan of the work
that needs to be done to implement them: we will not hide problems.</LI><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">Send out a call for help to our community, looking for people
willing to take over the job and complete it in a given time
frame. (Yes, I know we are all volunteers, but we do take
responsibilities and aim for deadlines, this issue is relevant
enough to ask for it.)<SUP><A NAME="text1" HREF="#note1">1</A></SUP></LI><LI CLASS="li-enumerate">Make sure the takers, if any, have access to the needed
resources and that they get credit for their attempt and, hopefully,
success.</LI></OL><P>If all this fails, we will have an emergency plan. For instance, we
can consider an external bounty (i.e. nobody involved in Debian can
take it) to realize what is missing, under the supervision of the WWW
team. We regularly pay for services we are unable to produce by
ourselves, the website should be no difference.</P><!--TOC subsubsection Core teams-->
<H4 CLASS="subsubsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc13">2.3.3</A>  Core teams</H4><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:core-teams"></A></P><P>Our core teams have recently improved a lot, in terms of manpower and
communication. Kudos for that go to Steve McIntyre and Sam Hocevar
(the last two DPLs) and of course to the team themselves.
Nevertheless some teams are still short, or so it seems from the
outside. Adding members makes a team more tolerant to absences, and
also helps to prepare the next generation of contributors. The
distinction between assistants and regulars in several teams seems to
work very well in that respect.</P><P>My naive intention would be to bring all core teams to at least three
members and to push for campaigning for assistants when there are no
well-established procedures for team joining. Also, by looking at our
<A HREF="http://www.debian.org/intro/organization">organization page</A> it
looks as if several teams are either not active anymore, or are very
bad in communicating what they are doing. For their own good, involved
people should be encouraged to replacement and something to work on
that is more fun for them.</P><P>All these changes however should be attempted first with team
agreement, to not bother potentially understaffed yet very efficient
teams. I will start from the precious
<A HREF="http://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-announce/2008/04/msg00014.html">team
reviews</A> gathered by Steve McIntyre last year<SUP><A NAME="text2" HREF="#note2">2</A></SUP> to drive re-staffing and procedural changes
in order not to bother properly working teams.</P><!--TOC section Additional info-->
<H2 CLASS="section"><!--SEC ANCHOR -->Additional info</H2><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:extra"></A></P><!--TOC subsection Time commitment-->
<H3 CLASS="subsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR -->Time commitment</H3><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:time-commit"></A></P><P>Being DPL is challenging ; for it to succeed the job must be taken
seriously. For the duration of the mandate I will therefore put on
hold my other Debian tasks; it is an obligation towards habitual
co-workers and a fair deal to avoid burning out. I'm not the only
responsible person in most of my current Debian duties and I will leave
behind efficient teams, so I'm confident the tasks will not remain
unattended. The remaining parts are a handful of packages which will
need new maintainers.</P><P>On the same topic and for the sake of clarity: some DPL candidates
have in the past declared their ability to act as DPL full-time. I
cannot grant that. What I offer is my Debian time, to be diverted to
DPL tasks. Luckily though, I work at a university where I have a very
FOSS-sensitive boss. I have the freedom to reorganize and possibly
shrink my schedule both for emergencies, and for longer activities
such as traveling to deliver Debian talks. Like most of us, I'm
generally available on IRC, phone, etc.</P><!--TOC subsection Live platform-->
<H3 CLASS="subsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR -->Live platform</H3><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:live-platform"></A></P><P>Beside rebuttals, the DPL platform is fixed once and for all at the
end of the nomination period. While that makes perfect sense in the
context of a vote, it makes it hard for candidates to communicate
their positions on important topics, because of the volume of
information the vote process generates. Hence, if noteworthy topics
will come up during the campaigning, I will summarize my positions
about them at
<A HREF="http://www.upsilon.cc/~zack/hacking/debian/dpl-2009/"><TT>http://www.upsilon.cc/~zack/hacking/debian/dpl-2009/</TT></A>.</P>
<H2 CLASS="subsection"><!--SEC ANCHOR --><A NAME="htoc30">3</A>  Rebuttal</H2><!--SEC END --><P>
<A NAME="sec:Rebuttal"></A></P><P>
I have known Steve and Luk for quite a while now and I deeply respect
what they both did for Debian in all these years. I acknowledge all
the problems they (yup, "they", because they are de facto running in
tandem) mention in their platform: communication, humbleness and
asking for help, ... In fact most of them are general problems of all
free software projects.
<P>
That notwithstanding, their platform lacks hints and strategies that
explain <I>how</I> they are going to attack those problems: it is not
enough to say, e.g., "I want to see improvements made where they are
clearly needed" to actually deploy the improvements. Also, I'm missing
the vision of the two candidates on relevant topics such as Debian
membership, mailing list discussion quality, derivatives, ...
<P>
All in all I found that the main contribution to the decision of
voting for Steve and Luk is the example set by Steve in the current
DPL term. The platform, which is what a rebuttal is meant to comment
upon, does not have much more to offer.
<p>
I acknowledge that Steve did some great work during the current DPL
term, but most of his practical tasks are approaching completion. It
would have been great to know what, if elected, he plans to work on
<I>additionally</I>. Presenting such a "diff" is, in my opinion, the duty
of the DPL currently in charge, when standing for re-election.


<!--BEGIN NOTES document-->
<HR CLASS="footnoterule"><DL CLASS="thefootnotes"><DT CLASS="dt-thefootnotes">
<A NAME="note1" HREF="#text1">1</A></DT><DD CLASS="dd-thefootnotes">FWIW, even though it was way
simpler, but my experience with the
<A HREF="http://upsilon.cc/~zack/blog/posts/2007/12/pts_face_lifted/">PTS
face lift</A> is that our community is responsive to our
deficiencies in Web presence. I asked for a new PTS CSS layout,
got several replies, and chose one of them. It required some back
and forth round trips, but is nothing different from the usual
patch work flow.
</DD><DT CLASS="dt-thefootnotes"><A NAME="note2" HREF="#text2">2</A></DT><DD CLASS="dd-thefootnotes">with specific
exceptions, if interviewed people do not feel like sharing the
actual content with me
</DD></DL>
<!--END NOTES-->
<!--CUT END -->
<!--HTMLFOOT-->
<!--ENDHTML-->
<!--FOOTER-->
<HR><BLOCKQUOTE CLASS="quote"><p><EM>This document was translated from L<sup>A</sup>T<sub>E</sub>X by
</EM><A HREF="http://hevea.inria.fr/index.html"><EM>H</EM><EM><sup class="mini">E</sup></EM><EM>V</EM><EM><sup class="mini">E</sup></EM><EM>A</EM></A><EM>.</EM></p></BLOCKQUOTE>
